TOWN OF BANNER ELK,
NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2023 S-1 current through
Ordinance passed - -2022, and
State legislation current through 2022 ALS # 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Banner Elk shall be
designated as the Code of Banner Elk, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
Statutory reference:
   Construction of state statutes, see G.S. §§ 12-3, 12-4
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Avery County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Banner Elk,
North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in a prior year and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code,
§           )”.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this code or ordinances shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the
amount of $100, to be recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued written
notice of the violation which must be paid within 30 days after receipt of said
notice. If the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days, the town may
recover such penalty, and all subsequently accruing penalties, in a civil
action.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, all ordinances may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violations of any provision of
this code of ordinances shall not be a misdemeanor.
   (E)   If any division of this section is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other divisions shall nevertheless continue in full force
and effect.
   (F)   In the event it is necessary for the town to institute a civil action
to collect a civil penalty for the violation of any provisions of any town
ordinance, the offender shall pay all court costs and reasonable attorney’s
fees incurred by the town.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE
      
33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
Meetings
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Emergency meetings
   
30.04   Continued or recessed meetings
Meeting Procedures
   
30.15   Agenda
   
30.16   Order of business
   
30.17   Mayor to preside; Mayor Pro Tempore
   
30.18   Quorum
   
30.19   Taking official action
   
30.20   Debate
   
30.21   Duty to vote
   
30.22   Adoption of ordinances
   
30.23   Closed sessions
   
30.24   Public hearings
   
30.25   Minutes
Motions
   
30.40   Substantive and procedural motions
   
30.41   Motion to amend
   
30.42   Motions to dispose of issue without deciding merits
   
30.43   Reconsideration of matters disposed of on the merits
   
30.44   Motion to terminate debate
   
30.45   Miscellaneous motions
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
30.60   Qualifications for office
   
30.61   Appointments
   
30.62   Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.63   Vacancies
MEETINGS
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Council shall hold a regular meeting on a day and a time to be
determined by the then-sitting Council.
   (B)   The Council may change the date and time of its regular meeting by
voting at a regularly scheduled meeting and providing adequate public notice.
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   A “special meeting” is any non-emergency meeting of the Council held
at any time other than that specified in §
30.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any two members of the Council
may, at any time, call a special meeting by signing a written notice stating
the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to the Mayor and Council members
as provided in this section. Preferably 48 hours, but not less than six hours,
before the meeting:
      (1)   Written notice shall be delivered personally to each Council
member; or
      (2)   If notice cannot be personally delivered, notice may be left at the
Council member’s usual place of dwelling. In this event, the Town Clerk shall
make reasonable effort to contact the Council member by telephone.
   (D)   Special meetings may also be held when all Council members are present
and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written waiver of
notice; provided that, the notice to the media required by division (E) below
is given.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of a special meeting to the public
and the media, at least 48 hours before the meeting, by:
      (1)   Posting a notice of the time and place of the meeting on the town’s
principal bulletin board;
      (2)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to each of the media
who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law, being G.S. Ch.
143, Art. 33C; and/or
      (3)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to any person who has
filed with the Clerk a written request for it in accordance with the Open
Meetings Law, being G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C.
   (F)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
   (G)   A person or persons calling a special meeting of the Town Council
shall comply with the notice requirements of G.S. § 143-318.11.
§ 30.03 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   An “emergency meeting” is a meeting of the Council called because of
generally unexpected circumstances that require immediate consideration.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any two members of the Council
may, at any time, call an emergency meeting by signing a written statement
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to Council members in the same
manner as notice of special meetings.
   (D)   Emergency meetings may also be held when all Council members are
present and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written
waiver of notice; provided that, the notice to the media required by division
(E) below is given.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of an emergency meeting to each of
the media who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law, being
G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C. This notice shall be given either by telephone or by
the same method used to notify Council members and shall be given immediately
after the notice has been given to those members.
   (F)   Only business connected with the emergency may be transacted at an
emergency meeting.
§ 30.04 CONTINUED OR RECESSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   By majority vote, the Council may continue or recess any regular,
special or emergency meeting to any place and time specified in the motion to
continue or recess the meeting.
   (B)   No further notice need be given of any continued or recessed session
of a meeting set in accordance with division (A) above.
MEETING PROCEDURES
§ 30.15 AGENDA.
   (A)   Preparation. The Town Manager shall prepare the agenda for the
meeting.
   (B)   Requests to be placed on agenda. A request to have any item of
business placed on the agenda must be received by the Town Manager in
sufficient time so that the agenda may be printed and distributed in accordance
with division (E) below and, to this end, the Manager may establish an
appropriate deadline to receive the requests.
   (C)   Public comment period. There shall be at the monthly meeting of the
Town Council a public comment period. Those wishing to speak during the public
comment period shall abide by the following rules.
      (1)   A public comment period shall be placed on the agenda of each
regular Town Council meeting. The agenda item shall occur at the beginning of
the meeting immediately after the adoption of the agenda and any public
hearings.
      (2)   Each person desiring to speak during the public comment period
shall sign up to speak prior to the start of the meeting on the form provided
by listing his or her name and topic on which he or she will speak.
      (3)   A total time of 30 minutes will be allotted for the public comment
period at the end of which those who signed up to speak may be requested to
hold their comment until the next regular public comment period during which
they will be given priority for comment. Council, in its discretion, may extend
the time allotted for public comment.
      (4)   Each speaker shall be allotted up to five minutes to speak which
shall be strictly observed unless otherwise extended at the discretion of the
Council.
      (5)   Speakers shall at all times maintain proper decorum and shall make
their comments in a civil manner. Speakers shall remain at the podium to make
comments and not approach Council or staff without the express invitation of
the Mayor or presiding officer.
      (6)   At the request of Council, groups of persons supporting or opposing
the same positions may be asked to designate a spokesperson to speak.
      (7)   Speakers shall not speak on any topic which is the subject of a
public hearing on the same agenda.
   (D)   Contents. The agenda shall include, for each item of business placed
on it, as much background information on the subject as is available and
feasible to reproduce.
   (E)   Inspection and distribution. Copies of the agenda and attachments
shall be available for public inspection as soon as they are completed. The
Town Manager shall mail or deliver copies of the agenda and attachments to the
Council members in sufficient time to ensure that they are received prior to
the meeting. Additional copies of the agenda may be available for the press and
interested members of the public.
   (F)   Additions. The Council may, by consensus or majority vote of the
Council membership, add an item of business that is not on the agenda. Unless
otherwise specified by the Council, additions to the agenda shall be taken up
at the conclusion of all other regular business.
§ 30.16 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items of business shall be taken up at a meeting in the order that
they appear on the agenda, except as provided in division (D) below.
   (B)   Items shall be placed on the agenda according to the “order of
business” established by the Council upon recommendation of the Town Manager.
   (C)   In establishing the “order of business”, the Council may authorize
broad categories of business to be included as agenda items, such a “members of
the public wishing to be heard”, “matters by the Town Manager” or “matters by
attorney”.
   (D)   Items may be considered out of order by consent of all members present
or by majority vote upon a motion.
§ 30.17 MAYOR TO PRESIDE; MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings, but shall have the
right to vote only when there is a tie.
      (2)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In order to
address the Council, a member must be recognized by the Mayor. The Mayor shall
have the following powers:
         (a)   To rule motions in or out of order, including any motion
patently offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
         (b)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable
standards of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule on
objections from other members on this ground;
         (c)   To entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure;
         (d)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
         (e)   To adjourn in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
   (B)   At the organizational meeting, the Council shall elect from among its
members a Mayor Pro Tempore to serve at the Council’s pleasure. A Council
member who serves as Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to vote on all matters
and shall be considered a Council member for all purposes, including the
determination of whether a quorum is present. In the Mayor’s absence, the
Council may confer on the Mayor Pro Tempore any of the Mayor’s powers and
duties. If the Mayor should become physically or mentally unable to perform the
duties of his or her office, the Council may by unanimous vote declare that he
or she is incapacitated and confer any of his or her powers and duties on the
Mayor Pro Tempore. When the Mayor declares that he or she is no longer
incapacitated and a majority of the Council concurs, he or she shall resume the
exercise of his or her powers and duties. In the event both the Mayor and the
Mayor Pro Tempore are absent from a meeting, the Council may elect from its
members a temporary chairperson to preside in such absence.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor to preside, see G.S. § 160A-69
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.18 QUORUM.
   A majority of the actual membership of the Council, excluding vacant seats,
shall constitute a quorum. A quorum is necessary for the Council to take any
official action. A member who has withdrawn from a meeting without being
excused by majority vote of the remaining members present shall be counted as
present for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present.
§ 30.19 TAKING OFFICIAL ACTION.
   (A)   The Council shall proceed by motion. A motion, when duly seconded,
brings the matter before the Council for its consideration.
   (B)   A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at any time prior to a
vote if the member who seconded the motion concurs.
   (C)   Subject to §
30.22 of this chapter and other provisions of law, official action of the
Council shall be by majority vote.
§ 30.20 DEBATE.
   (A)   Once a motion has been stated and seconded, the Mayor shall open the
floor to debate upon it.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside over the debate according to the following
general principles:
      (1)   The member who makes the motion is entitled to speak first;
      (2)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken; and
      (3)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between
proponents and opponents of the measure.
§ 30.21 DUTY TO VOTE.
   Every member must vote unless excused by the remaining members according to
law. A member who wishes to be excused from voting shall so inform the Mayor,
who shall take a vote of the remaining members. No member shall be excused from
voting, except upon matters involving the consideration of his or her own
financial interest or official conduct. In all other cases, a failure to vote
by a member who is physically present in the Council chamber, or who has
withdrawn without being excused by a majority vote of the remaining members
present, shall be recorded as an affirmative vote. The question of the
compensation and allowances of members of the Council is not a matter involving
a member’s own financial interest or official conduct.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)
Statutory reference:
   Voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 30.22 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members of the
Council not excused from voting on the question in issue shall be required to
adopt an ordinance or take any action having the effect of an ordinance.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 159 (Local Government Finance),
no ordinance, nor any action having the effect of any ordinance, may be finally
adopted on the date on which it is introduced, except by an affirmative vote
equal to or greater than two-thirds of the Council membership. When an
ordinance requires a public hearing, the ordinance shall be considered
introduced at the meeting when the Council sets a date for the public hearing.
   (C)   Franchise ordinances and amendments shall not be finally adopted until
passed at two regular meetings of the Council.
§ 30.23 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold closed sessions in accordance with the Open
Meetings Law, G.S. § 143-318.11, and other provisions of the law.
   (B)   The Council shall commence a closed session by a majority vote to do
so and shall terminate a closed session in the same manner.
§ 30.24 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public hearings required by law or deemed advisable by the Council
shall be scheduled pursuant to a motion adopted by a majority vote setting
forth the subject, date, place and time of the hearing as well as any rules
regarding the length of time of each speaker and other matters regarding the
conduct of the hearing.
   (B)   At the appointed time, the Mayor shall call the hearing to order and
then preside over it. Upon the expiration of the allotted time, or when there
are no individuals who wish to speak who have not done so, the Mayor shall
declare the hearing ended.
   (C)   A quorum of the Council shall be required at all public hearings
required by state law.
§ 30.25 MINUTES.
   Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of the Council.
MOTIONS
§ 30.40 SUBSTANTIVE AND PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   (A)   A substantive motion is a motion that seeks to have the Council
exercise any of its powers, duties or responsibilities. A motion to amend a
substantive motion is also a substantive motion. A substantive motion, other
than to amend, is out of order while another substantive motion is pending.
   (B)   A procedural motion is a motion that relates either to the manner in
which the Council conducts its business in general or the manner in which the
Council deals with a particular substantive issue or substantive motion that is
before it.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all motions authorized by this
subchapter may be amended and debated.
§ 30.41 MOTION TO AMEND.
   (A)   An amendment to a motion must be germane to the subject matter of the
motion, but it may achieve the opposite effect of the motion.
   (B)   There may be an amendment to the motion, and an amendment to the
amendment, but no further amendments.
   (C)   Any amendment to a proposed ordinance shall be reduced to writing upon
the call of any member.
§ 30.42 MOTIONS TO DISPOSE OF ISSUE WITHOUT DECIDING MERITS.
   (A)   Motion to defer consideration until a date certain. This motion
requires that a date be set when, without further action by the Council, a
matter will again be placed on the agenda.
   (B)   Motion to defer consideration indefinitely. Adoption of this motion
removes the issue from the Council’s consideration until such time as a motion
to revive consideration
§ 30.43 RECONSIDERATION OF MATTERS DISPOSED OF ON THE MERITS.
   (A)   Renewal of motions. A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any
subsequent meeting unless a motion has been adopted in accordance with division
(B) below.
   (B)   Motion to prevent reconsideration for six months. This motion is in
order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and at no other
time. It requires a two-thirds’ vote for adoption. A matter concerning which
this motion has been adopted may be brought before the Council prior to the
expiration of six months pursuant to a vote to suspend the rules. This motion
does not bind a new Council.
§ 30.44 MOTION TO TERMINATE DEBATE.
   A motion to call the previous question is a motion to cut off debate on a
matter under consideration and put the matter to a vote. This motion shall be
in order at any time, but unless each Council member present has had an
opportunity to speak at least once on the issue, the motion requires a two-
thirds vote for adoption. This motion is not debatable and may not be amended.
§ 30.45 MISCELLANEOUS MOTIONS.
   In addition to others authorized by this chapter, the following motions
shall be in order:
   (A)   Divide a complex question and consider it by paragraph;
   (B)   Suspend the rules. This motion shall require a two-thirds vote for
adoption;
   (C)   Take a recess; and
   (D)   Adjourn. This motion may not be amended.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 30.60 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE.
   Upon the motion of any member, the Council shall determine the
qualifications of any member. An office may be declared vacant by a majority
vote of the Council membership if the member fails to meet any of the statutory
or constitutional requirements of office.
§ 30.61 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall use the following procedure to appoint individuals to
various subordinate boards and offices.
   (A)   The Mayor shall open the floor to nominations, whereupon the names of
possible appointees shall be put forward by the members and debated. Upon the
conclusion of the debate, the Mayor shall propose each name in alphabetical
order and the members shall cast their votes.
   (B)   If only one appointee is to be selected, the voting shall continue
until one nominee receives a majority of the votes cast, whereupon he or she
shall be appointed.
   (C)   If more than one appointee is to be selected, then each member shall
have as many votes as there are slots to be filled. A member must cast all of
his or her votes, and casts them for different nominees. The nominees receiving
the highest number of votes shall be appointed.
§ 30.62 REFERENCE TO ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order, newly revised, shall govern all procedural matters
not addressed by the provisions of this chapter. However, no action taken by
the Council shall be invalidated by a failure to abide by Robert’s Rules of
Order.
§ 30.63 VACANCIES.
   (A)   If the number of vacancies on the Council is such that a quorum of the
Council cannot be obtained, the Mayor shall appoint enough members to make a
quorum and the Council shall then proceed to fill the remaining vacancies.
   (B)   If the number of vacancies on the Council is such that a quorum of the
Council cannot be obtained and the Office of the Mayor is vacant, the Governor
may fill the vacancies upon the request of any remaining member of the Council,
or upon the petition of any five registered voters of the town.
   (C)   All vacancies that occur in any elective office of a town shall be
filled by appointment of the Town Council for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
   (D)   Vacancies in appointive offices shall be filled by the same authority
that makes the initial appointment.
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Tourism Development Authority
   
31.01   Appointment of membership
   
31.02   Rules of conduct for members
   
31.03   Officers
   
31.04   Meetings
   
31.05   Quorum
   
31.06   Voting
   
31.07   Powers and duties
   
31.08   Expenditures
Police Department
   
31.20   Organization; Chief of Police
   
31.21   Cooperation between law enforcement agencies
   
31.22   Storage fee for seized conveyances
   
31.23   Auxiliary Police Division
Board of Adjustment and Planning Board
   
31.50   Generally
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The town’s Tourism Development Authority shall consist of five members
who shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Town Council and shall
be selected as follows.
      (1)   Group One. Two members of the Authority shall be an owner or
manager of a town hotel, motel or bed and breakfast.
      (2)   Group Two. One member of the Authority shall be a representative of
Lees McRae College.
      (3)   Group Three. Two members of the Authority shall be chosen at large
and shall be individuals who are currently active in the promotion of travel
and tourism in the town.
   (B)   The initial terms of the members of the Authority shall be as follows:
the initial term of one of the members appointed from Group Three shall be for
a one-year term; the initial terms of one of the members shall be appointed for
terms of three years each. Thereafter, all terms shall be for three years.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring in any group shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term by the Mayor and approved by the Town Council.
   (D)   Members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their
services.
(Prior Code, § 32.30) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 31.02 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   (A)   Faithful attendance at all meetings of the Authority and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Authority shall be
considered a prerequisite of continuing membership on the Authority. If a
member misses more than two consecutive meetings, he or she may be replaced at
the recommendation of the Authority and in the discretion of the Town Council.
   (B)   No Authority member shall take part in the consideration and
determination of any matter in which he or she is personally or financially
interested.
   (C)   Each member shall maintain the confidential nature of confidential
material to which members may become privy as a member of the Authority.
   (D)   No Authority member shall directly or indirectly solicit any gift, or
accept or receive any gift, whether in the form of money, services, loan,
travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under
circumstances in which a reasonable person would believe that the gift was
intended to influence him or her in the performance of his or her duties, or
was intended as a reward for any official action on his or her part.
(Prior Code, § 32.31) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 31.03 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Authority shall be designated by the Town
Council. The Finance Officer of the town shall be the non-voting Finance
Officer of the Authority, and the Tax Collector of the town shall serve as
Secretary to the Authority.
   (B)   The Authority shall elect from membership a Vice Chairperson to serve
in the absence of the Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 32.32) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 31.04 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Authority shall meet at the call of the Chair, but, in any event,
it shall hold meetings at least quarterly. Special meetings of the Authority
may be called at any time by the Chairperson. At least 48 hours’ written notice
of the time and place of a special meeting shall be given by the Secretary or
by the Chairperson to each member of the Authority. All Authority meetings are
to be held in accordance with G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C, commonly referred to as
the Open Meetings Law.
   (B)   The Secretary of the Authority shall keep a record of its member’s
attendance and of the Authority’s resolutions, discussions, findings and
recommendations.
   (C)   All meetings shall be open to the public. The Authority shall adopt
rules of procedure to govern its meetings.
(Prior Code, § 32.33) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 31.05 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of three members of the Authority.
(Prior Code, § 32.34) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 31.06 VOTING.
   All members may vote on any issue properly before the Authority unless a
member has a personal or financial interest in the matter before the Authority.
(Prior Code, § 32.35) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 31.07 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Authority, upon its appointment, shall study the tourism industry
of the town and the most effective means of enhancing and promoting that
industry and recommend any plans, actions and programs which will, in
accordance with the powers granted herein, serve to enhance and improve the
tourism industry of the town.
   (B)   To this end, the Town Council confers upon the Authority the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To promote travel, tourism and conventions in the town, sponsor
tourist-related events and activities in the town and finance tourist related
capital projects in the town;
      (2)   To advertise or market an area or activity, publish and distribute
pamphlets and other materials, conduct market research or engage in or sponsor
similar promotional activities that attract tourists or business travelers to
the area;
      (3)   To make recommendations to the Town Council for the efficient and
effective enforcement of the town’s room occupancy and tourism development tax;
      (4)   To conduct such market research as it deems necessary in order to
devise and develop the goals and plans necessary to create an effective
marketing plan to promote travel and tourism industry in the town;
      (5)   To make tourism-related expenditures that, in the judgement of the
Authority, are designed to increase the use of lodging facilities, recreational
facilities and business establishments in the town or attract tourist or
business travelers to the town;
      (6)   To make tourism-related capital expenditures and expenditures
required to make the downtown tourist area and nearby green areas more
accessible, attractive and usable to pedestrian tourist, in accordance with the
Master Streetscape Plan, dated September 1999, and approved by the Town
Council;
      (7)   To select appropriate goals for the enhancement and development of
the tourism industry in the town;
      (8)   To seek, evaluate and choose proposals from appropriate
organizations which will address the establishment and approved goals of the
Authority;
      (9)   To evaluate the effective and efficient implementation of the
officially adopted plans of the Authority and of the Town Council;
      (10)   To submit quarterly and at the close of the fiscal year to the
Town Council reports of its receipts and expenditures for the preceding quarter
and for the year in such detail as the Town Council may require; and
      (11)   To make recommendations to the Town Council of persons nominated
to serve new terms or to fill vacant terms on the town’s Tourism Development
Authority.
(Prior Code, § 32.36) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 31.08 EXPENDITURES.
   The Authority shall use at least two-thirds of the funds remitted to it by
the Town Council to promote travel and tourism in the town and shall use the
remainder for tourism-related expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 32.37) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20 ORGANIZATION; CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of such regular, auxiliary and
special members and such quarters, vehicles, equipment and other property as
may from time to time be authorized by the Town Council.
   (B)   The organization of the Police Department shall be as provided by
regulations adopted pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police, under the general supervision of the
Manager, shall have direct control of the members and property of the Police
Department and shall be in command of the members.
      (2)   Members of the Police Department shall assume command in order of
rank, as prescribed in Departmental rules and regulations.
   (D)   In addition to his or her duties as commanding officer of the Police
Department, the Chief of Police shall perform all duties prescribed for him or
her by this code and other ordinances and by the general statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest, see G.S. §§ 15A-401 et seq.
   Constables and police officers generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of town, see G.S. §§ 15A-402 and 160A-360
§ 31.21 COOPERATION BETWEEN LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to enter into mutual
assistance arrangements with other municipal and county law enforcement
agencies; provided that, the head of the requesting law enforcement agency
makes such a request in writing.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to permit officers of the
Police Department to work temporarily with officers of the requesting agencies
including in an undercover capacity and may lend equipment and supplies.
   (C)   While working with the requesting agency, police officers shall have
the same jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges and immunities as an officer
of the requesting agency, in addition to those they normally possess.
   (D)   While working with the town’s Police Department pursuant to a written
request, an officer of the responding agency shall have the same jurisdiction,
powers, rights, privileges and immunities as a town police officer.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 31.22 STORAGE FEE FOR SEIZED CONVEYANCES.
   All conveyances, including vehicles, vessels, or aircraft seized under the
provisions of G.S. §§ 14-86.1 or 90-112(4), and stored on property of the town
will accrue a storage fee as established by the Fee Schedule for the town. No
conveyances shall be released until the storage fee is satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. passed 2-8-1988)
§ 31.23 AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION.
   (A)   There is hereby established, within the town’s Police Department, as a
division thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary Police Division
shall be a volunteer organization, whose members shall serve without
compensation, composed of as many members as may from time to time be
determined by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Chief of Police will control appointments and removals of the
Auxiliary Police Division and shall be under the direct control of the Chief of
Police, acting under the general supervision of the Town Manager. All
appointments and removals of members of the Auxiliary Police Division shall be
made in the same manner and under the same policies and procedures as may from
time to time be established for appointment and removal of regular officers.
   (C)   The Auxiliary Police Division shall have no commanding officer other
than the Chief of Police and the Sergeant on duty. Existing officers are titled
“honorary” and rank will be terminated at attrition. All other reserve
personnel will bear the rank of patrol officer. The Chief of Police shall
provide for adequate training and establish policies and procedures regulating
the conduct and performance of members of the Auxiliary Police Division and of
candidates for membership.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.50 GENERALLY.
   The Town Council shall appoint and nominate members for the Board of
Adjustment and Planning Board as set forth in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE
Section
   
32.01   Special assessments
§ 32.01 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Town Council is authorized to make special assessments as provided for
and in accord with G.S. §§ 160A-216, 160A-217, 160A-218 and 160A-219.
   (A)   The Town Council may establish and apply special assessments to
benefitting property owners for constructing, reconstruction, paving, widening,
installing curbs and gutters and otherwise building and improving the following
public facilities: streets, sidewalks, storm water management systems; water
systems; and wastewater collection and disposal systems of all types to include
septic tank system or other on-site collection or disposal facilities or
systems as applicable and as provided for in G.S. §§ 160A-216 and 160A-217.
   (B)   The Town Council shall establish the basis for making special
assessments on a project by project basis as determined by G.S. § 160A-218.
   (C)   The Town Council shall have the authority to establish schedules of
exemptions from assessments for corner lots when a project is undertaken along
both sides of a parcel of real estate as provided for and consistent with G.S.
§ 160A-219.
(Ord. passed 10- -2007)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   When state of emergency deemed to exist
   
33.02   Proclamation by Mayor; restrictions
   
33.03   Limitations and exemptions authorized in proclamation
   
33.04   Extension, amendment and repeal of proclamation
   
33.05   Authority to request state police and military forces; martial law
recommendation
   
33.06   Termination of restrictions, emergency
   
33.07   Compliance required
§ 33.01 WHEN STATE OF EMERGENCY DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, the public safety authorities of the town are unable
to maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 33.02 PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized in division (B)
below.
   (B)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose, by proclamation, any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, or roadway or
upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof;
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly; and
      (7)   Prohibit or regulate, by what is commonly called a curfew, persons
being upon any or all streets, sidewalks, public places and vacant lots within
the town during such periods of the day or night, or both day and night, as he
or she may specify.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 33.03 LIMITATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS AUTHORIZED IN PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the proclamation,
the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the limits of the town and to
specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such
restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
such other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
(Prior Code, § 35.03)
§ 33.04 EXTENSION, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 35.04)
Statutory reference:
   Extension, amendment and expiration of proclamations, see G.S. Ch. 166A
§ 33.05 AUTHORITY TO REQUEST STATE POLICE AND MILITARY FORCES; MARTIAL LAW
RECOMMENDATION.
   If, in the sound discretion of the Mayor, it shall appear that the emergency
is, or that the threatened emergency is likely to be, of such proportions that
the means available to the town to maintain law and order are insufficient for
such purpose, the Mayor shall, promptly and by the most expeditious means of
communication, inform the Governor of the situation and request that such
necessary police or military forces of the state be provided promptly; and if,
during an actual state of emergency, the Mayor shall find that the civil courts
having jurisdiction within the town are unable to perform their lawful duties
and that, by reason of widespread lawlessness, writs and other process cannot
be served or executed in the town, the Mayor shall inform the Governor of his
or her findings and may recommend to him or her that a state of martial law be
proclaimed to exist within the town.
(Prior Code, § 35.05)
§ 33.06 TERMINATION OF RESTRICTIONS, EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.06)
§ 33.07 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any persons to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter. Violation of any section of this
chapter shall be punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor, pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 35.07)
TITLE V: PUBLIC SERVICES
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
      
51.   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Prohibited acts
   
50.003   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.004   Right to meter
   
50.005   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Operation and Maintenance of Water and Sewer System
   
50.020   Application for use of water and sewer
   
50.021   Minimum user charge
   
50.022   Town to make connections; charges
   
50.023   Connection procedures
   
50.024   Customer responsibility
   
50.025   Work on private property
   
50.026   Shut-off valve; care of connections and fixtures
   
50.027   Authority to operate valves to cut-on or cut-off water service
   
50.028   Metered water; broken waterlines; inoperative meter
   
50.029   Maintenance of meters
   
50.030   Resale of water
   
50.031   Separate connection required for each lot; multiple structures on a
lot
   
50.032   Fire hydrants
   
50.033   Unnecessary use
   
50.034   Water and sewer extensions within the corporate limits
   
50.035   Water and sewer extensions outside the corporate limits
   
50.036   Private water and sewer systems outside the corporate limits
Operation and Maintenance of Sewage Collection and Disposal System
   
50.050   Use of public sewers required
   
50.051   When use of private wastewater disposal allowed
   
50.052   Building sewers and connections
   
50.053   Use of public sewers
Water and Sewer Revenues
   
50.065   Deposit
   
50.066   Water rates
   
50.067   Sewer rates
   
50.068   Water and sewer connection fees
   
50.069   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.070   Termination for change of occupancy
   
50.071   Termination by the town without notice
Water Shortage Response
   
50.085   Purpose
   
50.086   Definitions
   
50.087   Declaration of voluntary conservation
   
50.088   Declaration of mandatory conservation
   
50.089   Declaration of water shortage emergency
   
50.090   Declaration of rationing
   
50.091   Objectives of rationing
   
50.092   Water use rationing for residential users
   
50.093   Water use rationing for nonresidential water users
   
50.094   Water use rationing for hospitals and health care facilities
   
50.095   Enforcement of water rationing
   
50.096   Shortage water rates
   
50.097   Regulations
   
50.098   Conservation measures
Violations
   
50.110   Notice of violation of chapter
   
50.111   Liability for damages; other remedies
   
50.112   Violations of water shortage regulations
 
   
50.999   General penalty; enforcement of chapter and continuing violations
Statutory reference:
   Water and sewer system; authority to operate, see G.S. § 160A-312
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the
plural number; and the plural number includes the singular number.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, as amended,
Pub. L. 92-500, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Supp. IV, 1974).
   BILLABLE EXCESS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). A user’s loading in pounds
of BOD calculated using the billable flow and concentration of BOD in the waste
in excess of 300 mg/l.
   BILLABLE EXCESS CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A user’s loading in pounds of
COD calculated using the billable flow and concentration of COD in the waste in
excess of 750 mg/l.
   BILLABLE EXCESS TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). A user’s loading in pounds of
TSS calculated using the billable flow and concentration of TSS in the waste in
excess of 300 mg/l.
   BILLABLE FLOW. A user’s recorded water usage, from all water sources, as
measured by an approved meter, less any sewer-exempt meter data. Users on
unmetered wells shall have their billable flow estimated by averaging the
billable flow of other users of the same class.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at a 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives sanitary or industrial sewage only, and is located inside
the walls of a building, and conveys the sewage to the building sewer which
begins five feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the pubic sewer or
other place of disposal and conveys only sanitary or industrial sewage. This is
also known as a “house connection.”
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quality of oxygen utilized in the chemical
oxidation of organic and oxidizable inorganic matter under standard laboratory
procedure expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The divisions of wastewater treatment customers by waste
characteristics and process discharge similarities or function, such as
residential, commercial, institutional, industrial, or governmental.
   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters
from individual point source discharges.
   COLOR. The true color of light transmitted by the waste solution after
removing the suspended material, including the pseudocolloidal particles.
   COMMERCIAL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, a user engaged
in the purchase or sale of goods, or in a transaction or business, or who
otherwise renders a service.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right, less than fee simple, for the specific
use of land owned by others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the local government. A wastewater shall be considered free of
floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not
interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable wastes from the domestic or commercial
preparation, cooling, and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling,
storage, and sale of produce.
   INFILTRATION. The water unintentionally entering the public sewer system,
including sanitary building drains and sewers, from the ground through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from,
inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sanitary sewer system, including
building drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof
leaders; cellar, yard and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling
water discharges; drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross-
connections from storm sewers and/or combined sewers; catch basins; storm
waters; surface runoff, street wash waters; or drainage. INFLOW does not
include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
to a treatment facility.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The Town of Banner Elk, Avery County, North Carolina
acting through its Mayor and Town Council or other duly authorized
representative.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION PERMIT. A permit issued under the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) for discharge of
wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to the Act,
402 Pub. L. 92-500, as amended.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH SEWAGE. Wastewater or sewage having an average
daily suspended solids (SS) concentration of not more than 200 milligrams per
liter and an average daily BOD of not more than 200 milligrams per liter.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, not
including debt service, but inclusive of expenditures attributable to
administration, replacement of equipment, and treatment and collection of
wastewaters, necessary to insure adequate wastewater collection and treatment
on a continuing basis which conforms to applicable regulations and assures
optimal long- term facility management.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The term used to express the intensity of the acid or base condition of
a solution, calculated by taking the logarithm of the reciprocal of the
hydrogen ion concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources by the generator of that source prior to introduction of the
waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by the town.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SERVICES DIRECTOR. The individual appointed by and responsible to the
Town Manager for the supervision and direction of public services within the
town. In the event there is a vacancy in the position of Public Services
Director, the Town Manager may appoint an individual to fulfill the duties and
obligations of the Public Services Director regardless of title.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the town, and is
separate from and does not include sewers owned by other governmental units.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS
includes REPLACEMENT COSTS.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants, and institutions and to which storm, surface and groundwater are not
intentionally admitted.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period duration longer than
15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system and/or
performance of the wastewater treatment works so as to prevent attainment of
effluent limitations or to substantially increase operation and maintenance
requirements.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the following
sources: Standard Method for the Examination of Water Wastewater, 13th Edition,
as amended, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, American Water Works Association, and Water Pollution Control
Federation; Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, 1971, prepared
and published by the Analytical Quality Control Laboratory, U.S. Environment
Protection Agency; Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the Analysis of
Pollutants, enumerated in 40 C.F.R. §§ 136.1 et seq. (1975), as amended; and/or
any other procedures recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and
the North Carolina Division of Environmental Management.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries only storm waters, surface runoff, street
wash, and drainage, and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) OR TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water,
wastewater, or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtration as
prescribed in the STANDARD METHODS.
   TOXIC. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which upon exposure in
sufficient quantity to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations as
defined in standards issued pursuant to the Act, 307(a) Pub. L. 92-500, as
amended.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of a quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that is of sufficient quality that it would not be
in violation of federal or state water quality standards if such water were
discharged into navigable waters of the state. UNPOLLUTED WATER would not be
benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The anticipated term in years of physical and/or functional
productivity of elements and/or the whole of the wastewater treatment system
which can be reevaluated as a result of preventive maintenance, renewal which
off-sets physical and/or functional obsolescence, renewal of capital elements
due to consumption, and physical and/or functional betterments, direct or
indirect.
   USER CHARGE SYSTEM. The system of charges levied on users for the cost of
operation and maintenance, including replacement reserve requirements on new
and old wastewater collection and treatment facilities.
   WASTEWATER. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
including polluted cooling water and unintentionally admitted infiltration/
inflow.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment and shall include the wastes
from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (2)   SANITARY WASTEWATER. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and to dispose
of the effluent and accumulated residual solids.
(Prior Code, § 50.001)
§ 50.002 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The town prohibits the digging or drilling of private wells within the
town limits, providing the town can furnish water to the subject property.
   (B)   No persons except the properly authorized agent of the town shall tap
or make any connection with the main or distribution pipes of the water works.
No plumber or other person shall make connection with any service pipe until
application shall have been made for the same and permit granted, at which time
all bills chargeable against such connection must be paid, subject to the
penalty provided in this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or objectionable waste.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of the chapter.
   (E)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (F)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof,
without first obtaining a written permit in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (G)   No person(s) shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
unpolluted waters, such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sewer.
   (H)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s)
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under appropriate
charges.
   (I)   No person(s) shall use or permit the use of any town water through any
of the town water facilities where service has been cut off or discontinued, or
otherwise use the town water facilities without first having obtained
authorization through the procedures set forth herein. These persons shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by
the state statutes.
   (J)   No person(s) shall fill special use tanks or tankers containing
pesticides, fertilizers, or other toxic chemicals or their residues from the
town public water system except at a location equipped with an over the rim
free discharge of water or an approved reduced pressure backflow preventer
properly installed on the public water supply. The town shall not permit the
filling of such special use containers except at locations so equipped.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to cut, break, obstruct, damage,
change, alter or otherwise interfere with any water pipe or water main or
hydrant or sewer pipe or water tank or meter or anything being a part of the
waterworks or sewer system.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship or other business entity acting by or through its officer,
employee, or agent to take water from a fire hydrant within the town limits or
any other town source, without the written consent of the Public Services
Director.
   (M)   No person shall alter, adjust, tamper, deface, or otherwise interfere
with a water meter except as authorized by this chapter or the Public Services
Director.
   (N)   No person shall alter, tamper, deface, bypass, or attempt to bypass a
water meter for the purposes of affecting a water or sewer service reading.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Public Services Director or other authorized employees of the
local government bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing as it pertains to this chapter.
   (B)   The Public Services Director or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   The Public Services Director and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter the appropriate premises for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Public Services Director, or his or her representatives, shall
have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, textiles or other industries beyond
that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
sewers, waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (D)   The Public Services Director and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated
easement for sewage works for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent works, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.003)
§ 50.004 RIGHT TO METER.
   The right is reserved to meter any existing unmetered connection.
(Prior Code, § 50.004)
§ 50.005 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations, ordinances, or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law. However, wherever this chapter imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 50.005)
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
§ 50.020 APPLICATION FOR USE OF WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   All applications for the use of water and sewer must be made at the
Town Hall or other place designated by the Town Council and on the form
prescribed, and must be signed by the owner of the property to be supplied or
his or her authorized agent.
   (B)   The application shall be held to bind the applicant to take the supply
for not less than one year (unless a shorter time was specifically agreed
upon), and shall bind the applicant, so long as the water and sewer is taken,
to pay to the proper authority the established rates, and to comply with all
reasonable rules and regulations prescribed by the town.
   (C)   The town shall reject an application for service if there is an
outstanding amount due the town for water and sewer service at the applicant’s
previous address, or at other property owned by the applicant.
   (D)   At the time of the application, the requisite deposit as prescribed in
the town fee schedule shall be required.
   (E)   No application for water or sewer use is to be made until all
approvals have been given through the Planning Department.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 MINIMUM USER CHARGE.
   (A)   The minimum user charge, as set forth in the town fee schedule shall
be paid for each meter installed regardless of location. Each meter requires a
separate meter sheet, and each meter reading sheet shall cover a separate and
individual account.
   (B)   The minimum user charge shall apply whether the property is occupied
or unoccupied.
   (C)   If property is to be vacated for a specific length of time, and the
owner desires that water and/or sewer service be disconnected, the owner(s)
shall notify the Town Hall and complete a disconnect form. The charge for
reconnection shall be according to the town fee schedule, on file with the Town
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 TOWN TO MAKE CONNECTIONS; CHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. The town, through the Public Services Department, will
furnish all material and make all connections to the water and sewer mains and
install all water and sewer service pipes from the mains to the inside of the
property line.
   (B)   Fire protection. All plans for private fire protection shall be
submitted to and a permit obtained from the Public Services Department before
installation or extension of existing installations is made.
   (C)   Cross-connections. No person will be allowed to make a cross-
connection between the Public Services Department’s supply and a private well,
spring, or other source. Where the customer has another source of water in
addition to that of the Water Department, there shall be no physical connection
between the two supplies.
      (1)   There shall be no cross-connection between the town water lines and
air lines used for washing automobiles, or for any other purpose.
      (2)    No customer shall install a bypass to a meter to provide
continuity of service. In case such continuity is required, a separate source
of duplicate meter installation shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 50.022) (Ord. passed 2-6-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.023 CONNECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town shall run a service line from its distribution line to the
property line where the distribution line runs immediately adjacent and
parallel to the property to be served, and for which a tap-on fee then in
effect for each size of meter has been collected.
   (B)   The town may install its meter at the property line or, at the town’s
option, on the consumer property or in a location mutually agreed upon.
   (C)   When two or more meters are to be installed on the same premises for
different consumers, they shall be closely grouped and each clearly marked so
as to designate to which consumer it applies.
   (D)   The town does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
consumer’s piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (E)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from water, water pressure or the use of water on the consumer’s
premises, unless the damage results directly from negligence on the part of the
town. The town shall not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting
from any defect in the piping, fixtures or appliances on the consumer’s
premises. The town shall not be responsible for negligence of third party
persons or forces beyond the control of the town resulting in any interruption
of service.
§ 50.024 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Piping on the consumer’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s lines or mains.
   (B)   If the consumer’s piping on consumer’s premises is so arranged that
the town is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of metering
will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   Where a meter is placed on premises of a consumer, a suitable place
shall be provided by a consumer for placing the meter unobstructed and
accessible at all times to the meter reader.
   (D)   The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cut-off valve on the
consumer’s side of the meter.
   (E)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer, at the consumer’s expense, in a safe and efficient manner and
in accordance with the town’s rules and regulations, and in full compliance
with the sanitary regulations of the North Carolina Department of Environment
and Natural Resources.
   (F)   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for the town’s property
placed on the consumer’s premises, and shall permit access to it only by
authorized representatives of the town.
   (G)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the
cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to
the town; and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the
consumer.
   (H)   The amount of the loss or damage to the cost of repairs shall be added
to the consumer’s bill; and if not paid, service may be discontinued by the
town.
§ 50.025 WORK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Water lines beyond the meter connection are the property of and
responsibility of parties other than the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.023)
§ 50.026 SHUT-OFF VALVE; CARE OF CONNECTIONS AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   On all new and existing connections, the property owner shall install
and maintain a cut-off valve, on his or her side of the meter, for the control
of water service by the property owner. No one other than a town employee shall
use the cut-off valve on the town’s side of the meter.
   (B)   The pipe and connections from the main line to the customer’s side of
the meter will be maintained by the town without expense to the property owner.
If the meter is found to be across the property line, it shall be moved back to
the property line.
   (C)   All pipe, connections, and fixtures on the property must be kept in
repair by the property owner or consumer.
   (D)   In the event of town employees disconnecting service where property
owners do not have a cut-off valve, a fee will be charged in accordance with
the town fee schedule, on file with the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 50.024) (Ord. passed 2-6-1997; Ord. passed 3-24-1998)
§ 50.027 AUTHORITY TO OPERATE VALVES TO CUT-ON OR CUT-OFF WATER SERVICE.
   No person, except authorized employees of the town, shall operate any valve
on a town water main or on a service connection on the supply side of the water
meter, except that a licensed plumber may operate the valve in the town’s meter
box on a service connection to cut-off flow in an emergency where serious
personal injury or property damage is threatened.
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.028 METERED WATER; BROKEN WATERLINES; INOPERATIVE METER.
   (A)   Consumers using meters must have their entire water supply to the
premises on which they are set metered, and they will be charged for all water
that passes through the meter, whether used or wasted.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the customer to check water and sewer
lines on the property of the customer for broken or burst pipes. Each customer
or user shall contact the Utility Department to report any such instance of
broken or burst lines as soon as possible after discovery, and in no event no
later than 15 days after the postmark date of the monthly water and sewer
statement or 15 days after discovery of broken or burst lines, whichever sooner
occurs.
   (C)   Upon the proper reporting and proof of repair by the customer of a
broken line, the customer will be allowed a rate adjustment for any contested
amount of water usage, or sewer usage, not to exceed two billing periods;
however, the water rate shall be adjusted one time to each customer in a
calendar year. The sewer rate may be adjusted more than one time in a calendar
year.
   (D)   If the customer is so entitled, the contested monthly water bill shall
be determined by averaging the previous three months water service bills to
reflect an average bill for the contested amount of water usage.
   (E)   If the seal of the meter is broken by other than the town’s
representatives, or in the event that the meter fails to register the use of
water, the customer shall be charged with the amount computed using the
appropriate following formula for the period in which the meter failed to
register.
      (1)   If the customer has been an occupant at the same location for three
years or more, he or she shall be charged the current rate, based upon the
average water consumption for the same month during the previous years of
occupancy.
      (2)   If the customer has been an occupant at the same location for less
than three years, he or she shall be charged the current rate based upon the
average amount of water consumed monthly.
(Prior Code, § 50.025) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 50.029 MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   (A)   All water meters will be kept in proper operating order by the town.
The cost of all repairs will be borne by the property owner being served except
where repairs are necessitated by normal wear in which instance the cost of the
repairs shall be borne by the town. The town may, at its option, have repairs
done by outside agents and the costs ascribed as indicated above.
   (B)   Any property owner may request that the accuracy of his or her meter
be verified. The cost to verify the accuracy of the meter will be billed to the
property owner making the request as listed in the town fee schedule, except
where the meter is found to be registering 5% off or more, and the erroneous
flow reading is caused by normal wear of meter.
§ 50.030 RESALE OF WATER.
   No water taker will be allowed to supply or sell water either before or
after using to persons or families, nor shall any person take away or carry
water from any hydrant or public fountain without the consent of the Public
Services Director. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a landlord may pro-rate water
charges among tenants so long as the landlord does not markup or charge any
additional fees to the tenants in conjunction with the water usage.
(Prior Code, § 50.027) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.031 SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED FOR EACH LOT; MULTIPLE STRUCTURES ON A
LOT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, LOT shall mean a parcel of land whose
boundaries have been established by some legal instrument, such as a recorded
deed, deed of trust or recorded map, and which is recognized as a separate
legal entity for purposes of transfer of title.
   (B)   There shall be for every lot to which water and sewer service is
available:
      (1)   A separate tap and connection with the water main of the town and
separate service pipe, tap and meter; and
      (2)   A separate tap and connection with the sewer main of the town.
   (C)   Where there are multiple buildings or structures situated on one lot
and where the lot owner desires to have a common water connection, including a
private water distribution system, and a common sewer connection, including a
private sewage collection, he or she must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The building permit and plat shall show a single owner and shall
indicate the complex of buildings to be constructed on a single lot.
      (2)   The applicant shall be required to submit a preliminary site plan
showing the proposed water and sewer construction. Such plans shall be prepared
by a registered professional engineer who shall also provide full-time
inspection of the work. Such plans shall include:
         (a)   Size of water lines, materials to be used for construction,
valve locations and hydrant locations. All construction from the property line
to the water meter shall be in accordance with state standards and
specifications. Construction beyond the water meter may be with materials
permitted in the Plumbing Code. All construction shall be performed by either a
licensed master plumber or a licensed utility contractor; and
         (b)   Size of sewers and materials to be used for construction. All
sewers eight inches or larger in size shall be constructed in accordance with
state specifications and standards and approved by the town. All sewers smaller
than eight inches shall be constructed in accordance with the Plumbing Code.
All construction shall be performed by either a licensed master plumber or a
licensed utility contractor.
   (D)   For all new multiple structures and upon conveyance of a building
within such multiple constructed area to a new owner, the town shall require a
separate water and sewer connection from that building to the mains in the
street, except in the case of condominium or townhouse developments.
(Prior Code, § 50.028) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.032 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   The fire hydrants are for the purposes of fire protection, when such needs
may exist, and are not to be used by any other person for any purpose without
permission from the Public Services Director. In the event any hydrant is
damaged, notice must be sent at once to the Public Services Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.029) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.033 UNNECESSARY USE.
   No person will be allowed to fill any reservoir or use any stream of water
larger than two inches for washing or flushing purposes without permission from
the Public Services Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.030) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.034 WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   The extension of all water and sewer lines and related facilities
which may include, but not be limited to, water lines, valves, hydrants, pumps,
storage facilities, sewer lines (gravity or force mains), pumping stations and
equipment, and manholes shall be carried out in accordance with the terms of
this chapter and all other town codes, standards, regulations and policies
governing the installation of water and sewer facilities using or having access
to the town water system or treatment of waste by the town sewage treatment
plant.
   (B)   All materials used in the installation of water or sewer lines and
facilities shall meet the standards of the town and the state. The installation
of water and sewer lines and facilities shall conform with standards and
regulations of the town and the state.
   (C)   When water and sewer service shall be desired or proposed within the
town limits by any property owner or desired or proposed by the town or any
property situated where in the street adjacent to the property no water or
sewer mains have been laid, the town may construct and extend its water and
sewer mains from the nearest portion of its mains to a point as is necessary to
provide the requested or proposed service.
   (D)   Water mains, fire hydrants, and water storage tanks shall be designed
and sized as to provide fire protection to all properties connecting to town’s
water system as defined in the AWWA Manual M31, Distribution System
Requirements for Fire Protection. In no case shall the water system be designed
as not to meet the requirements of the Insurance Services Office or the
authority having jurisdiction over fire insurance rating at the time of
construction.
   (E)   To avoid excessive utility cuts and to protect street surfaces, the
town may require that whenever extensions of water or sewer lines are to be
made to properties or within new subdivisions, laterals must be extended to all
properties expected to connect to such water and sewer lines.
   (F)   (1)   All work on the extension of water and sewer lines not done by
town forces shall be subject to inspection by the town. If, in the judgment of
the Public Services Director there is a demonstrated lack of competent
supervision by the developer, the Director may:
         (a)   Halt work until the developer obtains approved supervision; and
         (b)   Provide constant inspection by town personnel/town engineering
firm at the expense of the applicant.
      (2)   Inspection of a project by the town does not consist of or imply
supervision. The person requesting the extension is solely responsible for
ensuring that the project is completed according to town and state
specifications, and may be required to rearrange or do over any work to bring
it into conformity with such specifications and requirements.
   (G)   The size and type of water meter shall be determined by the Public
Services Department based on the type of facility receiving service and shall
be selected to ensure high standards for accuracy and service conditions. The
size shall be the smallest, which is designed for a normal test flow rating
covering both the minimum and maximum flow rate expected by the customer.
Customer demands shall be calculated using fixture values and demand curves
from AWWA Manual M22 Sizing Water Service Lines and Meters.
   (H)   The town shall not pay for or bear the cost of the installation of
water or sewer lines on private property. All costs for the installation of all
water and sewer improvements within a development or on private property shall
be the responsibility of the subdivider or developer.
   (I)   Before any water main extension will be made to serve properties
inside the corporate limits of the town, the street in question shall be
opened, graded, and officially accepted as a part of the town street system,
unless otherwise specifically provided by the Board. Water will not be turned
on for use until all street opening requirements have been complied with.
   (J)   Water and sewer tap on fees and extension of sewer tap lines shall be
in accordance with §
50.068 of this chapter.
   (K)   No application for water and/or sewer use is to be made until all
approvals have been received from the Planning Department. This would include
all levels specified in the ordinances, Zoning Enforcement Officer, Planning
Board and/or Board of Adjustment.
   (L)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to a sewer any
volume of substance, material, water, or waste in excess of the volume of daily
flow allowed for the type of establishment for which they have been permitted
sewer service. The “daily flow” for the “type of establishment” shall be
determined by the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community
Development Environmental Management (or its successor division), and published
in the North Carolina Administrative Code.
   (M)   All persons requesting connection to the town’s water or wastewater
system shall deposit with the town, at the time of the request, the sum of all
system development fees and any other fees as required by the town. The fees
shall be paid before building construction begins on the property. In the case
of a major subdivision as defined in
Chapter 151, the system development fees shall be paid within ten days of
approval of the preliminary plat for any phase of development or in the case of
a conditional use permit as defined in
Chapter 152, the system development fees shall be paid before the issuance of
the permit. Priority for water and sewer connections will be for properties
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.031) (Ord. passed 3-12-2001) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.035 WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, the Town Council is
authorized, at their discretion, to furnish water and sewer to persons applying
therefor in territory outside the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   All expansions of the water and sewer system outside the corporate
limits shall be subject to the additional provisions of this chapter, and in
particular §
50.034 of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any person desiring sewer connection to the town system must also have
water connection to the town system, unless the Town Council in its sole
discretion, determines that connection to the town water system is not
economically feasible to the town.
   (D)   The town has the option of requiring that persons outside the
corporate limits who are requesting town water and sewer services voluntarily
submit that property to be served for voluntary annexation to the town. This
shall be at the town’s discretion. The annexation process shall be at the
expense of the property owner (including survey, acquisition of easements,
legal fees, and the like) and shall be completed prior to obtaining water and/
or sewer service.
   (E)   Unless property is annexed, all charges for water and sewer shall be
at the then existing outside rates.
   (F)   The installation, connection and maintenance of all water and sewer
lines outside the corporate limits shall be governed by the relevant provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.032) (Ord. passed 3-12-2001) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.036 PRIVATE WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All expansions of the water and sewer system outside the corporate
limits shall be subject to the additional provisions of this chapter, and in
particular §§
50.034 and
50.035 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person or legal entity owning real property outside the corporate
limits of the town who wishes to connect a private water or sewer system to the
existing water and sewer system of the town must receive the prior permission
and approval of the Town Council to do so.
   (C)   If approval is granted pursuant to division (A) above, the cost of the
installation, including labor, material, surveys and easements, if any, shall
be borne by the private property owner or owners so requesting connection; and
the town shall not be required to compensate the potential user for any costs
or improvements or expenses incurred in said installation.
   (D)   Upon the completion of any private water and sewer system, the
potential users and/or owners shall convey all right, title and interest in
said system to the town in fee simple, including all easements appurtenant
thereto.
   (E)   Upon said conveyance, the water and sewer system so conveyed and the
users thereof shall be subject to the existing rules and regulations governing
the town water and sewer system.
   (F)   The town has the option of requiring that persons outside the
corporate limits who are requesting connection of a private water and sewer
system to the town water and sewer system voluntarily submit that property to
be served for voluntary annexation to the town. This shall be at the town’s
discretion. The annexation process shall be at the expense of the property
owner (including survey and legal fees) and shall be completed prior to
obtaining water and/or sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 50.033) Penalty, see §
50.999
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 50.050 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located,
or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer of the town, is hereby
required, at the owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line. Failure to make such connection within the
allotted time will result in the minimum user charge being assessed on a
monthly basis to the property owner as if such connections were made.
(Prior Code, § 50.050) Penalty, see §
50.999
Statutory reference:
   Connection to sewer; authority to require, see G.S. § 160A-317
§ 50.051 WHEN USE OF PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ALLOWED.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provision of
§
50.050 of this subchapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Public
Services Director. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the local government, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Public Services Director. A permit and inspection fee shall be charged
according to the town fee schedule (on file with the Town Clerk).
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Public
Services Director. The Public Services Director shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction; and in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Public Services Director when the work is ready for
final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Public
Services Director.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private
wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlets.
   (E)   At such time as public sewer becomes available to a property serviced
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any septic
tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt. Failure to
make such connection within the allotted time will result in the minimum user
charge being assessed on a monthly basis to the property owner as if such
connections were made.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
local government.
   (G)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County
Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 50.051) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.052 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   Building sewer permits for residential, commercial, or public
facilities; and
         (b)   Permit to discharge industrial wastes, for establishments as
defined in §
50.001 of this chapter.
      (2)   In either case, the owner(s), or his or her agent, shall make
application on a special form furnished by the local government. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Public Services
Director. A permit and inspection fee for a residential or commercial building
sewer permit and for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
local government at the time the application is filed according to the most
recent fee schedule as prescribed by the local government and on file in the
office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the local government from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer; provided,
however, that such indemnification shall not extend to loss or damage due
solely to willful misconduct or negligence on the part of the local government.
   (C)   The town will, on new taps, run a four- or six-inch lateral to the
property line at a point convenient to the town, from a sewer line on public
property, if the line exists, at the rates set forth in the town fee schedule.
The town will install a clean-out at the property line. On existing services,
the town reserves the right to install a clean-out at the property line.
   (D)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from sewage or the use of sewers on the consumer’s premises. The town
shall not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting from any defect in
the piping, fixture or appliance on the consumer’s premises. The town shall not
be responsible for negligence of third party persons or forces beyond the
control of the town resulting in any interruption of service.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the Public Services Director to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Existing building sewers may be kept in service if, in the opinion of
the Public Services Director, they are in acceptable structural condition and
operate satisfactorily. All new building sewers, including any necessary
replacement of existing building sewers, must comply with the following
conditions:
      (1)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification
A74 29 or equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification C 200 or equal;
or other suitable material approved by the Public Services Director. Joints
shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is located
within ten feet of water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil
pipe with leaded joints. Cast iron pipe with leaded joints may be required by
the Public Services Director where the building sewer is exposed to damage by
tree roots. If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall
be cast iron soil pipe, except that non-metallic material may be accepted if
laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the Public Services
Director.
      (2)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Public Services Director. Whenever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought to the building at the elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary wastewater carried by such building drain shall be
lifted by a means approved by the Public Services Director and discharged to
the building sewer. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within five
feet of any bearing wall which might therefore be weakened. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at
uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in
direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
      (3)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Public Services
Director. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM
specification C12-19, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work
has been inspected.
      (4)   All joints and connection shall be made gastight and watertight.
Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead, Federal Specification ZZ-L-156, not less than one-inch deep. Lead
shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish, or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved. All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be factory
made compression joints as described under ASTM C-425, Type 3.
      (5)   Material for hot-poured joints shall not soften sufficiently to
destroy the effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of
160°F, nor be soluble in any of the wastes carried by the drainage system. The
joint shall first be caulked tight with jute, hemp, or similar approved
material.
      (6)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used if approved by the
Public Services Director, subject to the North Carolina Building Code.
      (7)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sanitary sewer
shall be made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable
location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly
located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her expense,
install a “Y” branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the
Public Services Director.
      (8)   Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and
no properly located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the
public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be used to make
such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner
surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of
connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the
public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connection made secure
and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the Public Services Director.
   (G)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the state. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Public Services Director before installation.
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Public
Services Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the supervision of the Public Services Director or his or her representative.
   (J)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in manner satisfactory to the local government.
   (K)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to keep and
maintain the building sewer connected to the public sewer in good repair. The
owner shall be responsible for making necessary repairs, at his or her own
expense, to the building sewer when notified in writing by the local government
that repairs are necessary. Should the owner fail to repair the building sewer
within 60 days after receiving written notification by the local government
that such repairs are necessary, the local government may make the necessary
repairs to the building sewer and shall assess the owner for the cost of the
repairs.
   (L)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer, at the consumer’s expense, in a safe and efficient manner and
in accordance with the town’s rules and regulations and in full compliance with
the sanitary regulations of the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Quality.
   (M)   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for the town’s property
placed on the consumer’s premises and shall permit access to it by authorized
representatives of the town.
   (N)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the
cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the
town; and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer.
   (O)   The amount of the loss or damage or the cost of repairs shall be added
to the consumer’s bill; and if not paid, service may be discontinued by the
town.
   (P)   In addition to the requirements of divisions (A) through (J) above,
any person who, after the effective date of this chapter proposes to originate
the discharge of any industrial waste for the first time into the sanitary
sewerage system or who proposes to make a significant change in the character
or volume of any industrial waste theretofore discharged into the sanitary
sewerage system shall apply to the town for a “permit to discharge industrial
wastes” on the special form furnished by the town. The applications shall be
supplemented by such information as the Public Services Director may reasonably
require for purposes of determining whether the qualifications are met as
specified in division (T) below.
   (Q)   In the event of failure of the Public Services Director to issue to
the applicant a written grant or denial of a permit within 60 days from the
submission of any additional information requested from the applicant by the
Public Services Director (which shall be requested within 30 days after
submission of the original application), it shall be lawful for the applicant
to discharge the industrial waste described in the application into the
sanitary sewerage system as if a permit to do so had been granted.
      (1)   If thereafter, the Public Services Director determines that a
permit should be denied, the Public Services Director shall give written notice
to the applicant specifying the reasons for denial of a permit and what
remedial action, if any, must be taken to qualify the application for a permit.
      (2)   The applicant shall thereupon discontinue the industrial waste
discharge or comply with any reasonable remedial conditions specified by the
Director of Public Services within the time limit to be specified by the
Director of Public Services or shall file notice of appeal from the decision of
the Director of Public Services within 30 days from the date of such decision.
In the event the applicant appeals the decision, it shall be lawful for the
applicant to discharge the industrial waste described in the application
subject to furnishing a bond or other security with terms specified by the
Director of Public Services, to hold harmless the town from any loss or expense
that it may incur as a result of such noncompliance or any further
noncompliance until a final decision becomes effective in response to such
appeal, whereupon the applicant shall comply with the conditions, if any,
specified by the terms of the decision in such appeal.
   (R)   A significant change in the character or volume of an industrial
waste, for purposes of division (P) above, shall be deemed to be proposed if
substances, compounds and elements not previously constituting a significant
part of a person’s industrial waste are expressed in milligrams per liter, of
any substance, compound or element in the waste, or average volume proposed to
be discharged will increase by 25% or more. In case of doubt as to whether an
intended change constitutes a significant change, it shall be the
responsibility of the person intending to make such a change to make the
necessary application or obtain a written ruling from the Director of Public
Services that an application for a permit is not required.
   (S)   Any person who, on the effective date of this chapter, is operating
within the town an industrial establishment within the meaning of §
50.001 of this chapter for which industrial waste is discharged into the
sanitary sewerage system (hereafter called “an existing industrial discharger”)
may continue such discharge until six months after the effective date of this
chapter. On or before this date, a permit will be required and an application
shall have been submitted to the Director of Public Services in accordance with
the following provisions:
      (1)   The Director of Public Services shall issue written notices to each
existing industrial discharger at least 120 days prior to the date the permit
shall be required specifying in such notice the time within which an existing
industrial discharger shall file application for a permit.
      (2)   Within the specified time limit, the existing industrial discharger
shall file the required application together with any other reasonable
necessary information as described in division (T) below.
      (3)   An existing industrial discharger may continue to discharge, after
complying with the requirement to file an application for a permit, unless and
until receipt by the applicant of a written notice specifying the reason for
denial of a permit and specifying what remedial action, if any must be taken to
qualify the applicant for permit.
      (4)   In the event that the applicant is denied a permit, the applicant
shall comply with the provisions specified in division (Q) above.
      (5)   An acceptable schedule has been established to show that the
discharger will comply with the sections of this chapter relating to the
pretreatment of industrial wastewater. In addition, the owner shall agree to
comply with any future federal and/or state pretreatment standard applicable to
the owner’s wastewater discharge.
      (6)   In any case where a final determination has been made denying a
permit, either after an appeal or because a timely appeal has not been taken,
it shall be unlawful for any person so denied a permit to discharge industrial
waste into a sanitary sewerage system.
   (T)   The “permit to discharge industrial waste” will be issued by the town
only when the Director of Public Services has determined that satisfactory
information has been submitted to indicate that:
      (1)   Sufficient capacity is available at the proposed point of discharge
for receiving the discharge of industrial waste and adequate treatment capacity
is available for testing;
      (2)   The waste being discharged or proposed to be discharged is amenable
to treatment by the processes employed in the wastewater treatment plant of the
town and will not impair the ability of the town to comply with the current
NPDES permit limits;
      (3)   The waste being discharged or proposed to be discharged will not
cause damage to the sanitary sewerage system and/or wastewater treatment
facilities, and will not constitute a hazard to humans or animals; and
      (4)   The concentrations of substances, compounds, and elements in the
waste being discharged or proposed to be discharged do not exceed the limits
established in §
50.053 of this subchapter.
   (U)   Such “permit to discharge industrial wastes” as described herein shall
be issued initially for a period of one year and may be renewed for periods of
one to five years per the discretion of the Director of Public Services or
until such industrial discharge ceases, whichever comes first. Such permit may
be renewed by repeating the aforedescribed application procedures.
   (V)   The permittee shall submit to the Director of Public Services a
periodic compliance report, at the time intervals stated in the permit, which
indicates the nature and concentration of pollutants in their discharge
effluent that are specified in the permit.
   (W)   All costs and expenses incurred by the town as a result of processing
sewer permits and making any necessary inspections shall be in accordance with
the policies and schedules of rates, fees and charges in effect at the time of
such incurrence.
(Prior Code, § 50.052) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.053 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the Director of Public Services and other regulatory agencies.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged on
approval of the Director of Public Services to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (B)   The introduction of storm water, ground water, or other water not
originating in the town water system is hereby prohibited. Yard area drains,
connections to downspouts, broken or damaged service pipes, and the like, are
specifically prohibited, whether or not they are preexisting. Any known or
finable sources must be corrected at the property owner’s expense, if the
offending inlet is on his or her property.
   (C)   The Director of Public Services and/or Town Engineer will notify, by
first-class mail, each property owner found to be in violation of the
requirement to discontinue the inflow. The notice shall specify a date by which
the property owner must have the violation corrected. Any person who fails to
comply within the time specified is subject to a civil penalty of $500. Each
day in which the violation continues beyond the specified time is a separate
violation.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to a sewer any of
the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes which contain floatable oils, fat or grease in
excess of 100 mg/l. Wastewater containing any substance that will solidify or
become discernibly viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or mineral oil, or other
flammable explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Any water or wastes that contains more than ten parts per million
by weight of the following gases: hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide, or nitrous
oxide;
      (5)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinder, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, lint, rubber, ungrounded garbage, whole blood, paunch
manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers,
and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes, acid or alkaline in reaction, and having
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system. Free acids and
alkalis of such wastes must be neutralized to a pH of between 5.5 and 9.5 at
all times;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes that contain phenols in excess of 0.50 parts
per million by weight (500 parts per billion). These limits may be modified if
the aggregate of contributions create treatment difficulties or produce a plant
effluent discharge to the receiving waters which may be prohibitive;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters or the effluent of the wastewater treatment plant. Materials
such as iron, chromium, copper, zinc, nickel, cadmium, aluminum, and silver,
and similar toxic or objectionable substances, shall be limited to the
following average quantities and at no time shall the hourly concentration
exceed three times the average concentration. The contributions from individual
establishments are subject to control in volume and concentration by the local
government. Other limits may be established as necessary by the Director of
Public Works:
 Parts per Million
                                         Parts per Million
Aluminum                                 5.00
Cadmium                                  0.10
Chromium as Cr (hexavalent or trivalent) 0.10
Iron as Fe                               5.00
Lead as Pb                               0.10
Nickel                                   0.10
Silver                                   0.10
Zinc as Zn                               0.50
 
      (9)   Any cyanides, in any quantity or concentration without the express
permission and approval by the local government;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual provision, attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment plant;
      (11)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance, which either singly or
by interaction with other wastes, creates a public nuisance or hazard to life
or repair. Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Director of Public Services;
      (12)   Any water or waste so discharged in its rate of volume or in its
concentration of suspended solids or of BOD as to cause sufficiently sudden
changes in the wastewater as it arrives at the wastewater treatment plant to
interfere materially or unreasonably with its proper operation to prevent
attainment of effluent limitations or to substantially increase operation and
maintenance requirements;
      (13)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (14)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director of Public
Services in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (15)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
SLUG as defined in §
50.001 of this chapter;
      (16)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; or
      (17)   Any water or wastes which independently or by interaction with
other water or wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form
suspended solids which interfere with the wastewater disposal system, or create
a condition deleterious to structures and treatment process.
   (E)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes and
having an average daily flow greater than 5% of the average daily wastewater
flow of the town, having: a five-day weight; a chemical oxygen demand greater
than 750 parts per million by weight; and/or containing more than 300 parts per
quantity of substances having the characteristics described in division (D)(3)
above, shall be subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public
Services. Where necessary, the Director of Public Services may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes if the waste prevents attainment of effluent
limitations or substantially increases operation and maintenance;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to the levels specified in this chapter as
acceptable for discharge to the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge to the
levels specified in this chapter; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (F)   The amount of each waste constituent subject to a surcharge shall be
determined in accordance with the following equation:
      PBOD = (IB - 300 mg/l) (8.34 x If)
      PCOD = (IC - 750 mg/l) (8.34 x If)
      PSS = (IC + 300 mg/l) (8.34 x If)
      F = (12f 10% Df)
   Where:
      IB =   Concentration of industrial BOD in mg/l
      If =    Industrial flow in million gallons per day
      IC =    Concentration of industrial suspended solids in mg/l
      P =    Pounds of waste constituent in hundreds subject to surcharge
      F =    Excessive flow subject to surcharge in gallons per day
      Df =    Design flow of the treatment works to which the user's wastewater
is discharged in gallons per day
      12f =    Industrial flow in gallons per day
   The amount of the surcharge will be determined by the following equation:
      S = (R x P) + (F x Rq)
   Where:
      S =   Amount of surcharge in dollars
      R =    Surcharge rate per 100 lbs. of constituent
      P =   Pounds of constituent (BOD, COD, SS, or any other applicable
parameter) in hundreds
      Rq =    Surcharge rate for excessive flow per 1,000 gallons
   (G)   The amount of surcharge rates shall be as designated by the Director
of Public Services and shall be on file in the office of Town Hall.
   (H)   The surcharge rates shall be reviewed at least annually by the
Director of Public Services in consideration of the costs of the town incurred
by treating the excessive wastes, including fixed charges, debt service
charges, and operation and maintenance costs. The Director of Public Services
shall review the recommended rates and adopt rates to be charged during the
ensuing fiscal year or until revised by the Director of Public Services.
   (I)   The volume of flow used in calculating the amount of surcharge will be
based upon the metered water consumption or as determined by the methods
described as follows.
      (1)   If the volume of water used by any person in his or her industrial
or process operations is substantially the same as the volume secured from the
municipal water works system, then the volume of water purchased shall be
considered to be the volume of waste discharged. Provided, however, that if a
waste discharge flow meter is installed by a person, the measured flow volume
shall be considered by volume of waste discharged.
      (2)   If, in the establishment of any person discharging industrial waste
into the sanitary sewerage system, a substantial portion of the water secured
from the municipal waterworks system is not used for industrial purposes, or is
not returned to the sanitary sewerage system, the quantity of industrial waste
shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   By meter (or meters) on the water supply line (or lines) to his
or her industrial and/or process operations;
         (b)   By a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or wastes lines) from
his or her industrial and/or process operations; or
         (c)   Until meters as required under subsections (a) and (b) above,
have been installed, an estimate, made by the Director of Public Services shall
be made of the proportion of the water purchased which is used for industrial
purposes and returned to the sanitary sewerage system.
      (3)   If any person now discharging or proposing to discharge industrial
waste into the sanitary sewerage system does not secure his or her entire water
supply requirements from the municipal water works system, such person shall
install and maintain a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or waste lines)
from his or her industrial and/or process operations, or shall install such
additional meters on private water supply as required to permit determination
of the total quantity discharged to the sewers from both sources under
procedures comparable to subsections (1) and (2) above.
      (4)   Any discharge flow meters and appurtenances, and the installation
of such, shall be approved by the Director of Public Services.
   (J)   The surcharges shall be based on the analytical results of not less
than three 24-hour composite samples collected at the control manhole at
unannounced, but approximately equal, intervals during the preceding three
months. Samples shall be collected and an analysis shall be made by competent
operating personnel at the sewage treatment plant or other persons designated
by the Director of Public Services in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater. When requested by
the discharger, the samples shall be split to permit analysis by the
discharger, or a qualified independent laboratory.
   (K)   Each person discharging liquid wastes into the public sewer shall be
subject to periodic inspection to determine the character and concentration of
such wastes. The concentration of the BOD, COD, and SS shall be determined by
the Director of Public Services in such manner as to provide a typical,
representative sample. The costs incident to the supervision, inspection,
sampling and analysis for regularly scheduled sampling shall be included in the
surcharge fees. The Director of Public Services shall also make inspection and
tests immediately after any significant process changes which may affect the
quantity or quality of wastes discharged.
   (L)   If the Director of Public Services permits or requires the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flow, the design and installation of the
plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval in writing of
the Director of Public Services, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (M)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptor sewers shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Director of Public Services, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable oil in excessive amounts,
or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Director of Public Services, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed, all grease, oil, and
sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at his or her expense in
continuously efficient operation at all times. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Director of Public Services. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials
not performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
   (N)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
Pretreatment shall be provided as required in order to:
      (1)   Reduce the BOD to 600 parts per million and the suspended solids to
600 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in division (B) above;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; and
      (4)   No preliminary treatment plant and facility shall be constructed or
operated unless all plans, specifications, technical operating data, and other
information pertinent to its proposed operation and maintenance shall conform
to all local government, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, North Carolina
Division of Environmental Management, and any other local, state, or federal
agency regulations, and unless written approval of the plans, specifications,
technical operating date, and sludge disposal has been obtained from U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, North Carolina Division of Environmental
Management, and any other local, state, or federal agency having regulatory
authority with respect thereto.
   (O)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes and other users as may be required by the Director of Public
Services shall install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the industrial wastes. Such structure, when
required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Director of Public Services. The
structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (P)   An industry which desires to increase its monthly average wastewater
discharge into the wastewater facilities shall obtain prior written approval
from the Director of Public Services. Failure to obtain prior written approval
shall make the industry concerned susceptible to all penalties stated in §§
50.110,
50.111 and
50.999 of this chapter.
   (Q)   If the quantity of flow of wastewater from an industry is relatively
low in comparison with the capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, the
local government may waive the pretreatment requirements of this chapter except
that the industry involved shall be required to install such structures and
equipment as may be necessary to conform to division (B) above.
   (R)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the local government
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the local government for treatment.
   (S)   If, for any reason, a discharge does not comply with or will be unable
to comply with any of the terms of this chapter, the discharger shall provide
the local government with the following information, in writing, within five
days of the occurrence of or becoming aware of such condition:
      (1)   A description of the discharge and the use of noncompliance; and
      (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times, or if
not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to continue
and steps being taken to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the
noncomplying discharge.
   (T)   Whenever required by the local government, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying nonresidential wastewater and material
shall install a large manhole or sampling chamber in the building sewer in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the local government and
installed and maintained at all times at the user’s expense. There shall be
ample room in each sampling chamber to accurately sample and composite samples
for analysis. The chamber shall be safely, easily, and independently (of other
premises and buildings of user) accessible to authorized representatives of the
town at all times. Where construction of a sampling chamber is not economically
or otherwise feasible, alternate arrangements for sampling may be arranged at
the discretion of the Director of Public Services.
   (U)   Each sampling chamber shall contain a Parshall flume, weir, or similar
device with a recording and totalizing register for measuring liquid quantity;
or the metered water supply to the industrial plant may be used as measure of
liquid quantity where it is substantiated by the local government that the
metered water supply and waste quantities are approximately the same or where a
measurable adjustment agreed to by the Director of Public Services is made in
the metered water supply to determine the liquid waste quantity.
   (V)   Samples shall be taken every hour or half hour, as determined by the
Director of Public Services and properly refrigerated and composited in
proportion to the flow for a representative 24-hour sample. Such sampling shall
be done as prescribed by the local government to insure representative
quantities for the entire reporting period.
   (W)   Minimum requirements for determination of representative quantities or
characteristics shall include reevaluation during each 12-month period. The
determination of representative quantities and characteristics shall include
not less than seven consecutive calendar days of 24 composite samplings taken
during periods of normal operation, together with acceptable flow measurements.
   (X)   The sampling frequency, sampling chamber, metering device, sampling
methods, and analysis of samples shall be subject, at any time, to inspection
and verification by the Director of Public Services.
   (Y) All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be determined in
accordance with the standard methods specified in §
50.001 of this chapter.
   (Z)   The local government may elect, at its option, to have the metering
and sample collection done by the industrial plant personnel and have composite
samples delivered to an approved, certified testing laboratory for analysis.
This procedure can also be terminated at any time by the local government upon
reasonable notice.
(Prior Code, § 50.053) Penalty, see §
50.999
WATER AND SEWER REVENUES
§ 50.065 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   A minimum deposit shall be required to initiate water and/or sewer
service or to open the water valve to a new occupant or tenant. See the town
fee schedule (on file with the Town Clerk) for deposit charges.
   (B)   A separate deposit shall be paid on each installed water meter.
   (C)   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible
for the payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service furnished.
   (D)   No interest shall be paid by the town on the deposit. The town may
apply the deposit to a delinquent account. Any unused portion of the deposit is
to be refunded to the customer upon closing the account. In the event that the
account holder is the property owner and there have been no notices of
termination due to delinquent payment sent on the account within two years, the
property owner may request a refund for the deposit. If the account holder is a
renter of the property, the deposit shall be refunded upon departure from the
service, if the final bill is paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 50.065) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998)
§ 50.066 WATER RATES.
   All residential and commercial property upon which any structure has been or
may hereafter be erected within or without the corporate limits of the town,
having a connection with any mains or pipes which are or which may be hereafter
constructed and used in connection with the town water system, shall pay the
fees set forth in the town fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 50.066) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Water and sewer rates, see G.S. § 160A-317
§ 50.067 SEWER RATES.
   All residential and commercial property upon which any structure has been or
may hereafter be erected within or without the corporate limits of the town
having a connection with any mains or pipes which are or which may be hereafter
constructed and used in connection with the town sewer system, shall pay the
fees set forth in the town fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 50.067) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Water and sewer rates, see G.S. § 160A-317
§ 50.068 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   For rates of connection to the town’s water and/or sewer system, see the
town fee schedule (on file with the Town Clerk).
(Prior Code, § 50.068) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998)
§ 50.069 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cut-off notice that if the bill is not paid within 15
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing, and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $50.
(Prior Code, § 50.069)
§ 50.070 TERMINATION FOR CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Not less than ten days notice shall be given in person or in writing
at the Town Hall to discontinue service for a change in occupancy.
   (B)   The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed and for
pro-rated service up to the time of departure or the time specified for
departure whichever period is longer.
   (C)   When all charges for service are paid in full, the outgoing party’s
deposit shall be refunded. The deposit will be refunded pursuant to §
50.065 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.070)
§ 50.071 TERMINATION BY THE TOWN WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice
for the following reasons:
      (1)   Prevention of fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumer’s willful disregard for service regulations;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficient supply beyond the town’s control; and
      (5)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident, act of God, or any other
unavoidable cause.
   (B)   The town shall make a good faith effort to notify affected customers
before service is terminated. However, the customer, by making application for
service, agrees to hold the town harmless from liability for any damages which
may occur due to termination for the above-mentioned causes.
   (C)   No person shall be entitled to damages, nor to have any portion of a
payment refunded for any stoppage of water for purposes of additions,
accidents, or repairs, nor for any other necessary stoppage.
(Prior Code, § 50.071) Penalty, see §
50.999
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
§ 50.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the town in the event a
shortage is declared.
(Prior Code, § 50.085)
§ 50.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOTMENT. The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over any
applicable period as established in the water rationing provision of this
subchapter.
   ANY WATER. Any type of water, including fresh water, brackish water,
wastewater, or reclaimed water.
   BRACKISH WATER. Water containing more than 1,000 parts per million of
dissolved salts.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the town’s water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or in the
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   EMERGENCY. Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal needs
and serious shortages exist in the area.
   EXCESS USE. The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this subchapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   FRESH WATER. Water withdrawn from surface or groundwater which has not been
previously used, other than brackish water.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. Raw water supplies (such as, stream flow, reservoir
levels or groundwater levels) are consistently below seasonal averages, and if
they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
   NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Commercial, industrial, institutional, public and
all other such users, with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   RATIONING. Procedures established to provide for the equitable distribution
of critically limited
water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited available supplies, and
to assure that sufficient water is available to preserve public health and
safety.
   RECLAIMED WATER. Wastewater which has been treated to allow reuse.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Any customer who receives water service for a single
or multi-family dwelling unit. The term RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER does not include
educational or other institutions, hotels, motels, or similar commercial
establishments.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The temporary suspension of water supply, or reduction
of pressure below that required for adequate supply, to any customer, portion
of a water supply, or entire system.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. Conditions exist which indicate the potential for
serious water supply shortages.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to permitting water to escape
down a gutter, ditch, or other surface drain, or failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing.
   WASTEWATER. Water which has been previously used for industrial municipal,
domestic, or other purpose, and has not been returned to the surface or
groundwater source.
   WATER. Water available to the town for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or withdrawal permit or any treated water introduced by the town into
its water distribution system, including water offered for sale.
   WATER USE CLASSES. Water use classes shall be established as follows:
      (1)   Class 1: essential water uses.
         (a)   Domestic use. Water necessary to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation.
         (b)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation,
including swimming pools used for patient care and rehabilitation.
         (c)   Fire use.
            1.   Fire hydrants;
            2.   Firefighting; and
            3.   Certain testing and drills by the Fire Department if performed
in the interest of public safety and if approved by the Town Council.
         (d)   Municipality use. Flushing of sewers and hydrants as needed to
ensure public health and safety and if approved by the Town Council.
      (2)   Class 2: socially or economically important uses of water.
         (a)   All domestic uses other than those included in Classes 1 and 3.
            1.   Home water use including kitchen, bathroom, and laundry use;
            2.   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens; and
            3.   Watering of trees where necessary to preserve them.
         (b)   Commercial, agricultural, industrial, and institutional uses.
            1.   Outdoor commercial watering (public or private) using
conservation measures and to the extent that sources of water other than fresh
water are not available or to use;
            2.   Irrigation for commercial vegetable gardens and fruit orchards
or the maintenance of livestock;
            3.   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock;
            4.   Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national, state
or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens;
            5.   Use of fresh water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
vegetation following earth-moving, where such revegetation is required by law
or regulation;
            6.   Watering of golf course greens;
            7.   Filling and operation of swimming pools:
               a.   Residential pools which serve more than 25 dwelling units;
and
               b.   Municipal pools.
            8.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            9.   Commercial laundromats;
            10.   Restaurants, clubs, and eating places;
            11.   Air conditioning:
               a.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling
season;
               b.   Make up of water during the cooling season; and
               c.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
Town Council, where the system has been drained for health protection or repair
purposes.
            12.   Schools, churches, hotels/motels and similar commercial
establishments.
      (3)   Class 3: non-essential uses of water.
         (a)   Ornamental purposes. Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls.
         (b)   Outdoor noncommercial watering (public or private).
            1.   Gardens, lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens), playing
fields and other recreational areas;
            2.   Residential pools which serve less than 25 dwelling units;
            3.   Noncommercial washing of motor vehicles;
            4.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places except
by specific request; and
            5.   Air conditioning: refilling cooling towers after draining
except as specified in Class 2.
         (c)   Public use.
            1.   Fire hydrants: any purpose, including use of sprinkler caps
and testing fire apparatus and for Fire Department drills, except as listed in
Class 1; and
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as listed in Class 1.
(Prior Code, § 50.086) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.087 DECLARATION OF VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Whenever the governing body of the town finds that a potential shortage of
water supply is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by adoption of an
ordinance that voluntary conservation conditions exist, and that the Director
of Public Services shall, on a daily basis, monitor the supply and demand upon
that supply. In addition, the Mayor (or his or her agent) is authorized to call
upon all water customers to employ voluntary water conservation measures, as
set forth hereto, to limit water use (especially Class 3 uses) and eliminate
the waste of water. This section shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area which qualifies under G.S. § 1-597, and may be
publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate method for
making such resolutions public.
(Prior Code, § 50.087)
§ 50.088 DECLARATION OF MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   Whenever the governing body of the town finds raw water supplies (such as,
stream flow, reservoir levels or groundwater levels) to be consistently below
seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline and may not be adequate to
meet normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare by adoption of an ordinance
that mandatory conservation conditions exist. The town shall continue to
encourage voluntary water conservation measures defined under the voluntary
conservation declaration, and further shall impose a ban on all Class 3 water
uses for the duration of the shortage until it is declared ended by ordinance
of the Town Council. Publication of this section shall follow the provisions
declaration in §
50.087 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.088)
§ 50.089 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the town finds that raw water supplies are
below the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages
exist, it shall be empowered to declare by adoption of an ordinance that a
water shortage emergency exists. Class 1 essential uses shall be identified, in
specific, as targets for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all Class 2
socially or economically important uses shall be banned in addition to the
Class 3 non-essential uses. These restrictions shall continue until the
emergency is declared ended by ordinance of the Town Council. Publication of
this section shall follow the provisions declaration in §
50.087 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.089)
Statutory reference:
   Water emergencies, see G.S. § 143-354
§ 50.090 DECLARATION OF RATIONING.
   Whenever the governing body of the town has declared a water shortage
emergency and finds a need to provide for the equitable distribution of
critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered to provide for
mandatory rationing by adoption of an ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 50.090)
§ 50.091 OBJECTIVES OF RATIONING.
   An ordinance that provides for mandatory rationing shall state findings
that:
   (A)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and, at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation and to provide fire protection service;
   (B)   The immediate further reduction in water usage is another step along a
continuum of responses to the present water supply shortage. Should shortages
continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be emphasized
that the additional usage reduction in the rationed area is a valid and
attainable goal reflective of the conditions which currently exist; and
   (C)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this
subchapter depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency
area.
(Prior Code, § 50.091)
§ 50.092 WATER USE RATIONING FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   (A)   Metered residential water customers and allotments.
      (1)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit (household)
will determine the amount of water that each household will be allowed.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be allotted 40 gallons per day
for each resident of the household. Households with only one permanent resident
will have a daily allotment of 55 gallons.
      (3)   Residential water customers are required to provide town and
utility personnel with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to monitor
this rationing declaration. Where access is not readily available, all
reasonable efforts to contact customers in order to arrange for access to read
meters shall be made. In the event a water customer does not allow entry to
read the meter after reasonable efforts to arrange for such access, the
dwelling unit (household) allotment will be reduced to 55 gallons per day.
      (4)   If it is found that the residential water allotment provided under
this section would create an extraordinary hardship for individual customers,
as in the case of special health related requirements, a revised allotment for
the particular customer may be established. Any person aggrieved by a decision
relating to such an exemption of variance may file a complaint with the
Director of Public Services.
   (B)   Nonmetered residential water customers and allotments.
      (1)   In order to effectively implement and monitor the residential water
conservation effort, a water allotment shall be established for the entire
water system based on 40 gallons per day per capita served.
      (2)   The town will establish a communication system with the customers
through public media to inform them of the requirements of the water rationing
provisions of this chapter possible conservation measures that customers may
employ, the system allotment, and a regularly scheduled report of whether the
usage was within the allotment.
   (C)   Metered and nonmetered residential customers of the same water supply
system. Where a water supply system serves both metered and nonmetered
residential customers, the allotments and procedures provided under both
divisions (A) and (B) above shall be applied as appropriate.
   (D)   Suggested conservation measures. Suggested conservation measures are
set forth in §
50.098 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.092)
§ 50.093 WATER USE RATIONING FOR NONRESIDENTIAL WATER USERS.
   (A)   Nonresidential customers include commercial, industrial,
institutional, public, and all other such users, with the exception of
hospitals and health care facilities.
   (B)   Nonresidential water customers shall further reduce their water usage
to 40 gallons per person per day.
   (C)   It is the primary responsibility of each nonresidential water customer
to meet its mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner possible,
including limitation of operating hours or days, if necessary.
   (D)   The town will establish a water allotment for each nonresidential
water customer, based upon a required further reduction of water usage when so
required and notify the customer.
   (E)   Each nonresidential water user shall provide access to town personnel
for purposes of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with this
subchapter. All reasonable efforts will be made to contact customers to arrange
for access.
   (F)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be obtained
without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and safety, the
nonresidential customer may apply to the town for a variance. For these
purposes, EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP means a permanent damage to property or an
economic loss which is substantially more severe than the sacrifices borne by
other water users subject to this water rationing ordinance. If the further
reduction would cause an extraordinary hardship or threaten health or safety, a
variance may be granted by the Town Council and a revised water use reduction
requirement for the particular customer may be established. Any person
aggrieved by a decision relating to such a variance may file a complaint with
the Town Council.
   (G)   The town will provide each nonresidential customer with suggested
means to reduce usage levels as set forth in §
50.098 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.093)
§ 50.094 WATER USE RATIONING FOR HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and nonresidential water customers, as may
be applicable to each individual institution, to the extent compliance will not
endanger the health of the patients or residents of the institution.
   (B)   Each hospital or health care facility shall survey its water usage
patterns and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures
as may be possible without endangering the health of its patients or residents
to achieve a further reduction in the institution’s water usage.
   (C)   The town will provide each hospital and health care facility with
suggested means to reduce usage levels as set forth in §
50.098 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.094)
§ 50.095 ENFORCEMENT OF WATER RATIONING.
   (A)   The town will have primary responsibility for monitoring of compliance
with the water rationing ordinance.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern the implementations of temporary
service interruptions:
      (1)   In order to effectuate compliance with this subchapter, the town is
hereby authorized and required to plan and implement temporary service
interruptions to all or part of its water supply system, as may be deemed
appropriate, when any and/or all of the following conditions are determined to
exist:
         (a)   The mandated reduction in system wide usage has not been
achieved;
         (b)   The mandated reduction in system wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; and/or
         (c)   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited and/or dwindling water supplies.
      (2)   In the event it is determined that temporary service interruptions
are necessary, the town shall notify its customers through the public media
(newspaper, radio, and television), at least one day prior to the temporary
service interruptions, that a planned, temporary service interruption is to be
imposed. Such notice shall:
         (a)   State the day or days when the planned, temporary service
interruption will occur;
         (b)   State the time(s) when such planned, temporary service
interruptions are to be imposed on the entire system, or part thereof, and, if
only part(s) of the system will experience planned, temporary service
interruptions, identify geographic boundaries within which such interruptions
will occur; and
         (c)   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned,
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the
system, for human consumption, during the period(s) of such interruptions and
for such additional time as may be necessary until full pressure is restored to
the system.
      (3)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is imposed as
authorized and required by this subchapter, the town must provide for the
continued delivery of water to health care facilities within the area(s)
affected by such interruptions by means of any adequate, alternative delivery
measures that may be necessary.
      (4)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is implemented, the
town must make provision, by any means possible, for the continued delivery of
such water as may be necessary for the proper operation of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal systems and facilities.
   (C)   Any residential or nonresidential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this water rationing will be subject to the
following excess-use civil penalties.
      (1)   “Excess-use civil penalties” will be collected based on the amount
by which a customer’s use exceeds the water allotments established pursuant to
the local water rationing declaration, computed in accordance with the town fee
schedule (on file with the Town Clerk).
      (2)   Any monies collected through excess-use civil penalties shall not
be accounted for as income, but shall be placed in a reserve account that is
dedicated to addressing water shortage problems and water conservation
initiatives.
      (3)   In addition to the excess use civil penalty, noncompliance with the
water rationing provisions of this subchapter will result in the following.
         (a)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer.
         (b)   For the second or subsequent excess use, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 48 hours, or, if the
customer provided access, a flow restrictor may be installed in the customer’s
service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost incurred to interrupt
or shut off and reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow restrictor,
shall be assessed to the water customer. Before service to an individual may be
terminated under this provision, actual notice of the intent to discontinue
shall be given, which shall include notice that the customer may appear at a
designated time and place (within 24 hours) for an informal hearing to show why
service should not be discontinued.
      (4)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this subchapter.
      (5)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing an excess-use civil penalty or other remedy for non-compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter may proceed in accordance with the
following provisions: The Town Council, shall provide an opportunity for the
customer or aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a violation, or provide
evidence of circumstances beyond the customer’s control such resulted in the
violation. A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be kept,
and a written notice of the town’s final decision and action in such cases
shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
(Prior Code, § 50.095) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998)
§ 50.096 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage as provided in §
50.089 of this subchapter, the Town Council shall have the power to adopt
shortage water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Such
rates may provide for, but not be limited to: higher charges per unit for
increasing usage (increasing block rates), uniform charges for water usage per
unit of use (uniform unit rate); extra charges for use in excess of a specified
level (excess demand surcharge); or discounts for conserving water beyond
specified levels.
(Prior Code, § 50.096)
§ 50.097 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
50.087 through
50.090 of this subchapter, the Town Council is empowered to promulgate by
ordinance such provisions and requirements as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter, any water supply shortage declaration ordinance,
or water shortage rate ordinance. Such ordinances may be adopted at a special
or emergency meeting of the Town Council, if statutory requirements are met.
(Prior Code, § 50.097)
§ 50.098 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Users shall adopt the following conservation measures as they related to the
designated voluntary, mandatory, emergency or rationing phase of the water
shortage response ordinance.
   (A)   Indoor residential uses. During conservation for voluntary and
mandatory conservation phases, indoor residential units shall adopt
conservation measures (1) - (15) below. During conservation for emergency
conservation or rationing phase, indoor residential users shall adopt
conservation measures (1) - (17) below.
      (1)   Use dishwashers only when they are full. Washing dishes by hand (do
not let the tap run) saves about 25 gallons.
      (2)   Adjust water level on clothes washing machine if possible. Use full
loads only if not adjustable.
      (3)   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth, and the like. Saves about
five gallons per day.
      (4)   Reduce water use per flush by installing toilet tank displacement
inserts. A plastic jug may often be used as an alternative. Do not use bricks,
they disintegrate when soaked and the resulting grit hinders closing of the
flap valve.
      (5)   Do not use the toilet as a trash can.
      (6)   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
      (7)   Keep bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator for drinking.
      (8)   Find and fix leaks in toilets, which can leak silently. The
following methods can be used to see if this is occurring. Place a drop of food
coloring in the upper tank and do not flush for 30 minutes. If color appears in
the bowl, there is leakage.
      (9)   Find and fix leaks in faucets and water using appliances. Faucets
can usually be fixed cheaply and quickly by replacing washers.
      (10)   Adapt plumbing with flow-restricting or other water-saving
devices. These are usually inexpensive and easy to install. See list of devices
in Appendix E attached to the water conservation ordinance.
      (11)   Learn to read your water meter so you can judge how much water you
use and what difference conservation makes.
      (12)   Take shorter showers and shallower baths. Saves about 25 gallons.
      (13)   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day. Each flush uses about
five gallons (two to three if you have water saving toilets).
      (14)   Do not use a garbage disposal.
      (15)   Use non-phosphate detergent and save laundry water for lawns and
plants.
      (16)   Turn off shower while soaping up.
      (17)   Use disposable eating utensils.
   (B)   Outdoor residential use. Outdoor residential users shall adopt
conservation measures (1) - (28) below during normal and voluntary conservation
phases; conservation measures (1) - (34) during voluntary conservation phases;
and conservation measures (1) - (37) during mandatory conservation phases.
Note: Most outdoor watering is prohibited under emergency conservation
conditions.
      (1)   Water before 10:00 a.m. to prevent evaporation which occurs during
the hottest part of the day. Morning is better than evening, when the dampness
encourages growth of fungus.
      (2)   Water only when lawn shows signs of wilt. Grass that springs back
when stepped on does not need water.
      (3)   Water thoroughly, not frequently, long enough to soak roots. A
light sprinkling evaporates quickly and encourages shallow root systems. Water
slowly to avoid runoff.
      (4)   Do not let the sprinkler run any longer than necessary. In an hour,
600 gallons can be wasted.
      (5)   Allow maximum of one-inch of water per week on your lawn. To
measure, place cake tins outside to collect rain and water from sprinklers.
      (6)   Use pistol grip nozzles on hoses to avoid waste when watering
flowers and shrubs.
      (7)   Aerate lawns by punching holes six inches apart. This allow water
to reach roots rather than run off surfaces.
      (8)   Position sprinklers to water the lawn, not the pavement.
      (9)   Avoid watering on windy days when the wind not only blows water off
target, but also causes excess evaporation.
      (10)   Keep sprinkler heads clean to prevent uneven watering.
      (11)   Adjust hose to simulate a gentle rain. Sprinklers that produce a
fine mist waste water through evaporation.
      (12)   Know how to turn off an automatic sprinkler system in case of
rain.
      (13)   Use an alarm clock or stove timer to remind you to shut off
sprinklers that do not have timers.
Vegetable and flower gardens
      (14)   Water deeply, slowly, and weekly. Most vegetables require moisture
to depth of six to eight inches.
      (15)   Keep soil loose so water can penetrate easily.
      (16)   Use mulch around plants and between rows to hold in moisture.
      (17)   Keep weeds out to reduce competition for water.
      (18)   Put the water where you want it and to avoid evaporation try using
soilsoakers or slow-running hoses, not sprinklers.
Trees and shrubs
      (19)   Water deeply using a soil soaker.
      (20)   Water only when needed. Check the depth of soil dryness by digging
with a trowel.
      (21)   Mulch to reduce evaporation. A 2" to 3" layer of wood chips, pine
needles, grass clippings, or straw keeps the soil cool in the summer.
      (22)   Dig troughs around plants to catch and retain water.
      (23)   Water trees growing in full sun more often than those in shade.
      (24)   Do not use sprinklers. Apply water directly at base.
      (25)   Do not fertilize during the summer. Fertilizing increases a
plant’s need for water.
      (26)   Postpone planting until fall or spring when there is generally
less need for water.
      (27)   Install trickle-drip irrigation systems close to the roots of your
plants. By dripping water slowly, the system does not spray water into the air.
Use soil probes for large trees.
      (28)   Water when cloudy, at night, or even when a light rain is falling.
      (29)   Do not allow children to play with hose or sprinklers.
      (30)   Limit car washing.
      (31)   Be ready to catch rainfall that occurs. Place containers under
drainspouts.
      (32)   Use leftover water if available.
      (33)   Consider delaying the seeding or sodding of new lawns.
      (34)   Determine the amount of water being used outdoors by comparing
water bills for summer and winter.
      (35)   Vegetable gardens and food trees should be given minimal amounts
of water on an individual basis only.
      (36)   Do not water lawns and inedible plants.
      (37)   Do not use sprinklers.
   (C)   Hospital and health care facility use. Hospitalization and health care
facilities shall adopt all of the following conservation measures.
      (1)   Reduce laundry usage or service by changing bed linens, and the
like only when necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents.
      (2)   Use disposable food service items.
      (3)   Eliminate, postpone, or reduce, as they may be appropriate,
elective surgical procedures during the period of emergency.
   (D)   Industrial use. Industrial uses shall adopt the following conservation
measures.
      (1)   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment.
Give special attention to equipment connected directly to water lines, such as
processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines, water-cooled air
conditioners, and furnaces.
      (2)   Assure that valves and solenoids that control water flows are shut
off completely when the water using cycle is not engaged.
      (3)   Adjust water using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose.
      (4)   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible;
implement lower water levels wherever possible.
      (5)   For processing, cooling, and other uses, either reuse water or use
water from sources that would not adversely affect public water supplies.
      (6)   Advise employees, students, patients, customers, and other users
not to flush toilets after every use. Install toilet tank displacement inserts;
place flow restrictors in shower heads and faucets; close down automatic
flushes overnight.
      (7)   Install automatic flushing valves to use as little water as
possible or to cycle at longer intervals.
      (8)   Place water saving posters and literature where employees,
students, patients, customers, and the like will have access to them.
      (9)   Check meters on a frequent basis to determine consumptive patterns.
      (10)   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made.
(Prior Code, § 50.098)
VIOLATIONS
§ 50.110 NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
except §
50.002 of this chapter, and except unless otherwise provided, shall be served
by the local government with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   (B)   In any case involving a person who fails to comply with any section of
this chapter but who is not discharging waste into the sanitary sewerage
system, the Director of Public Services shall give notice to such person
stating the specifics of the failure of compliance and requiring that the
person promptly remedy the failure.
(Prior Code, § 50.110)
§ 50.111 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of such violation. This shall include, but not be limited to, all
additional fines and/or penalties which may result from further legal
proceedings and all associated legal and court costs.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is liable
to have his or her water turned off from the premises after notice, and the
town shall incur no liability whatever for turning off the water under such
circumstances.
   (C)   No provisions of this chapter shall preclude the town from taking such
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the court system of the
state and/or the United States against any person(s) discharging industrial
wastes or other wastes into the POTW’s system contrary to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   The Public Services Director is authorized to suspend and disconnect
the water service of any customer who has altered, adjusted, tampered, defaced,
or otherwise interfered with a water meter.
   (E)   The Public Services Director is authorized to suspend and disconnect
the water service of any customer who has altered, tampered, defaced, bypassed,
or attempted to bypass a water meter for the purposes of affecting a water or
sewer service reading.   
(Prior Code, § 50.111)
§ 50.112 VIOLATIONS OF WATER SHORTAGE REGULATIONS.
   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
50.085 through
50.098 of this chapter, who fails to carry out the duties and responsibilities
imposed by those sections or who impedes or interferes with any action
undertaken or ordered pursuant to those sections shall be subject to the
following penalties.
   (A)   (1)   If the Director of Public Services, or other town official or
officials charged with implementation and enforcement of §§
50.085 through
50.098 of this chapter or a water supply shortage resolution learns of any
violation of any water use restriction imposed pursuant to this chapter, a
written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property where the
violation occurred and mailed to the customer of record and to any other person
known to the town who is responsible for the violation or its correction.
      (2)   Said notice shall describe the violation and order that it be
corrected, cured, or abated immediately or within such specified time as the
town determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is not
complied with, the town may terminate water service to the customer subject to
the following procedures.
         (a)   The town shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the Town Manager; and
         (b)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given an opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
   (B)   Reconnection fees shall be charged in accordance with the town fee
schedule (on file with the Town Clerk) for any water service terminated
pursuant to division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 50.112) (Ord. passed 3-24-1998)
§ 50.999 GENERAL PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER AND CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of
$200, to be recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued written notice of
the violation which must be paid within 30 days after receipt of said notice.
If the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days, the town may recover
such penalty, and all subsequently accruing penalties, in a civil action.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, all ordinances may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violations of any provision of
this code of ordinances shall not be a misdemeanor.
   (E)   If any division of this section is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other divisions shall nevertheless continue in full force
and effect.
   (F)   In the event it is necessary for the town to institute a civil action
to collect a civil penalty for the violation of any provisions of any town
ordinance, the offender shall pay all court costs and reasonable attorney’s
fees incurred by the town.
CHAPTER 51: FATS, OILS, AND GREASES
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Control plan for (FOG) and food waste
   
51.04   General criteria
   
51.05   Design criteria
   
51.06   Grease trap maintenance
   
51.07   Additives
   
51.08   Chemical treatment
   
51.09   Sand, soil, and oil interceptors
   
51.10   Laundries
   
51.11   Control equipment
   
51.12   Alteration of control methods
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control discharges into the public
sewerage collection system and wastewater treatment plant that interfere with
the operations of the system, cause blockage and plugging of pipelines,
interfere with normal operation of pumps and their controls, and contribute
waste of a strength or form that either causes treatment difficulties or is
beyond the treatment capability of the wastewater treatment plant.
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES. Those establishments primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption
foodstuffs and that use one or more of the following preparation activities:
cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting,
toasting, or poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing,
and any other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food
product in or on a receptacle that requires washing. These facilities include
restaurants, cafeterias, hotels, motels, hospitals, nursing homes, schools,
grocery stores, prisons, jails, churches, camps, caterers, manufacturing
plants, or any other sewer users as determined by the town’s Wastewater
Collection System Superintendent who discharge applicable waste.
   GREASE. Material composed primarily of fats, oil, and grease (FOG) from
animal or vegetable sources. The terms fats, oil, and grease shall be deemed as
GREASE by definition. GREASE does not include petroleum based products.
   GREASE TRAP. A device for separating and retaining waterborne greases and
grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also serve to
collect settlable solids, generated by and from food preparation activities,
prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection
and treatment system.
   OIL/WATER SEPARATOR. An approved and industry standard system that is
specifically designed and manufactured to separate oil from water. The system
shall allow the oil to be collected and removed on a regular basis as to
prevent it from being discharged into the wastewater collection system. Only
OIL/WATER SEPARATORS manufactured for that specific operation will be approved.
Adequate support literature from the manufacturer will be required so as to
allow a proper review by the Public Services Director.
   USER. Any person or establishment including those located outside the
jurisdictional limits of the town who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution or discharge of wastewater into the town’s wastewater collection
or treatment system, including persons who contribute such wastewater from
mobile sources, such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
§ 51.03 CONTROL PLAN FOR (FOG) AND FOOD WASTE.
   (A)   Any new construction, renovation, or expansion of food service
facilities shall be required to submit to the town a FOG and food waste control
plan that will effectively control the discharge of undesirable materials into
the wastewater collection system.
   (B)   Any existing food service facilities shall also be required to submit
a FOG and food waste control plan that will effectively control the discharge
of undesirable materials into the wastewater collection system.
§ 51.04 GENERAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Installation requirements. All existing, proposed, or newly remodeled
food service facilities inside the town’s wastewater service area shall be
required to install, at the user’s expense, an approved, properly operated and
maintained grease trap.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer flows. Sanitary sewer flows from toilets, urinals,
lavatories, and the like shall not be discharged into the grease trap. These
flows shall be conveyed separately to the sanitary sewer service lateral.
   (C)   Floor drains. Only floor drains which discharge or have the potential
to discharge grease shall be connected to a grease trap.
   (D)   Garbage grinders/disposals. It is recommended that solid food waste
products be disposed of through normal solid waste/garbage disposal means. If a
grinder/disposal is used, it must be connected to the grease trap. The use of
grinders is discouraged since it decreases the operational capacity of the
grease trap and will require an increased pumping frequency to ensure
continuous and effective operation.
   (E)   Dishwashers. Commercial dishwashers must be connected to the grease
trap. Dishwashers discharge soap and hot water which can melt grease and allow
it to pass through an undersized grease trap. Traps must be sized accordingly
to allow enough detention time to allow water to cool and grease to solidify
and float to the top of the trap.
   (F)   Location. Grease traps shall be installed outside the building
upstream from the sanitary sewer service lateral connection. This will allow
easy access for inspection, cleaning, and removal of the intercepted grease at
any time. A grease trap may not be installed inside any part of a building
without written approval by the Collection System Superintendent.
   (G)   Pass through limits. No user shall allow wastewater discharge
concentration from grease trap to exceed 100 mg/l (milligrams per liter).
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Construction. Grease traps shall be constructed in accordance with the
town’s standards and shall have a minimum of two compartments with fittings
designed for grease retention. All grease removal devises or technologies shall
be subject to the written approval of the Public Services Director. Such
approval shall be based on demonstrated removal efficiencies of the proposed
technology.
   (B)   Access. Access to grease traps shall be available at all times to
allow for their maintenance and inspection. Access to traps shall be provided
by two manholes (one on each compartment) terminating at the finished grade
with cast iron frame and cover.
   (C)   Load-bearing capacity. In areas where additional weight loads may
exist, the grease traps shall be designed to have adequate load-bearing
capacity (example: vehicular traffic in driving or parking areas).
   (D)   Inlet and outlet piping. Wastewater discharging to a grease trap shall
enter only through the inlet pipe of the trap. Each grease trap shall have only
one inlet and one outlet pipe.
   (E)   Grease trap sizing. The required size of the grease trap shall be
calculated using one of six methods listed in grease separation device sizing
options as provided by N.C. Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
The Public Services Director shall determine which method will be used for a
given facility. No grease trap shall exceed a capacity of 3,000 gallons. If the
calculated capacity exceeds 3,000 gallons, multiple units plumbed in series
shall be installed.
§ 51.06 GREASE TRAP MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Cleaning/pumping.
      (1)   The user at the user’s expense shall maintain all grease traps to
ensure proper operation and efficiency and maintain compliance with the town’s
pass through limits.
      (2)   Maintenance of grease traps shall include the complete removal of
all contents, including floating materials, waster, and bottom sludge and
solids. This work shall be performed by a qualified and licensed hauler.
Decanting or discharging of removed waste back into the trap from which it was
removed or any other grease trap, for the purpose of reducing the volume to be
disposed, is prohibited. This service shall also include a thorough inspection
of the trap and its components. Any needed repairs shall be made at user’s
expense.
   (B)   Cleaning/pumping frequency. The grease trap must be pumped out
completely at a minimum of once every three months, or more frequently, as
determined by the Public Services Director, as needed to prevent carry over of
grease into the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Disposal. All waste removed from each grease trap must be disposed of
at a facility approved to receive such waste in accordance with the provisions
of this program. In no way shall the pumpage be returned to any private or
public portion of the town’s sanitary sewer collection system. All pumpage from
grease traps must be tracked by a manifest, which confirms pumping, hauling,
and disposal of waste. The customer must obtain and retain a copy of the
original manifest from the hauler.
   (D)   Maintenance log. A grease trap cleaning/maintenance log indicating
each pumping for the previous 24 months shall be maintained by each food
service facility. This log shall include the date, time, amount pumped, hauler,
and disposal site, and shall be kept in a conspicuous location for inspection.
The log shall be made available to the Public Services Department upon request.
   (E)   Submittal of records.
      (1)   Each user shall submit all cleaning and maintenance records to the
Collection System Superintendent. The maintenance records shall include the
following information:
         (a)   Facility name, address, contact person, and phone number;
         (b)   Company name, address, phone number, and contact person
responsible for performing the maintenance, cleaning, pumping or repair of
grease trap;
         (c)   Types of maintenance performed;
         (d)   Dates maintenance was performed;
         (e)   Date of next scheduled maintenance; and
         (f)   Copies of manifests.
      (2)   The user shall be required to submit maintenance records to the
Collection System Superintendent on a bi-annual basis (twice a year). Records
shall be submitted by April 1 and October 1 of each year. The records shall be
submitted to:
         Attn: Public Services Department
         Public Services Director
         P.O. Box 2049   
         Banner Elk, N.C. 28604
      (3)   The Public Services Department will perform periodic inspections of
these facilities and shall notify the user of any additional required
maintenance or repairs. Upon written notification by the Public Services
Director, the user shall be required to perform the maintenance and records of
said maintenance within 14 calendar days. Upon inspection by the Public
Services Department, the user may be required to install, at his or her
expense, additional controls to provide a complete system which prevents
discharges of undesirable materials into the wastewater collection system.
§ 51.07 ADDITIVES.
   Any biological additive(s) placed into the grease trap or building discharge
line, including but not limited to, enzymes, commercially available bacteria,
or other additives designed to absorb, purge, consume, treat, or otherwise
eliminate fats, oils, and grease shall require written approval by the Public
Services Director prior to use. The use of such additives shall in no way be
considered as a substitution to the maintenance procedures required herein.
§ 51.08 CHEMICAL TREATMENT.
   Chemical treatments, such as drain cleaners, acid, or other chemical
solvents designed to dissolve or remove grease shall not be allowed to enter
the grease trap.
§ 51.09 SAND, SOIL, AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   All car washes, truck washes, garages, service stations, car and truck
maintenance facilities, fabricators, utility equipment shops, and other
facilities (as determined by the Public Services Director) that have sources of
sand, soil, and oil shall install effective sand, soil, and oil traps,
interceptors, and/or oil/water separators. These systems shall be, at the
user’s expense, cleaned or pumped on a regular basis to prevent impact upon the
wastewater collection and treatment systems. Users whose systems are deemed to
be ineffective by the Public Services Director shall be asked to change the
cleaning frequency or to increase the size of the system. Owners or operators
of washing facilities will be required to prevent the inflow of detergents and
rainwater into the wastewater collection system. Oil/water separator
installations shall be required at facilities that accumulate petroleum oils
and greases and at facilities deemed necessary by the Public Services Director.
§ 51.10 LAUNDRIES.
   Commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor with a wire
basket or similar device, removable for cleaning, that prevents passage (into
the wastewater collection system) of solids one-half inch or larger in size,
such as rags, strings, buttons, or other solids detrimental to the system.
§ 51.11 CONTROL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The equipment or facilities installed to control FOG, food waste,
sand, soil, oil, and lint must be designed in accordance with the town, most
current engineering standards, and other applicable guidelines approved by the
Public Services Director. Underground equipment shall be tightly sealed to
prevent inflow of rainwater and shall be easily accessible to allow regular
maintenance and inspection.
   (B)   Control equipment shall be maintained by the owner and/or operator of
the facility as to prevent a stoppage of the wastewater collection system, and
the accumulation of FOG, food waste, sand, soil, and lint in the collection
lines, pump stations, and wastewater treatment plant. If the town is required
to clean out the wastewater collection lines, as a result of a stoppage
resulting from poorly maintained control equipment (or lack of), the owner or
operator shall be required to refund the labor, equipment, materials, and any
overhead costs to the town, including fines incurred due to any sanitary sewer
overflow due directly to the stoppage.
   (C)   The town retains the right to inspect and approve any and all
installations of control equipment.
§ 51.12 ALTERATION OF CONTROL METHODS.
   The town, through the Public Services Director, reserves the right to
request additional control measures if existing control equipment is shown to
be insufficient to protect the wastewater collection system and wastewater
treatment plant from interference due to the discharge of FOG, sand, soil,
lint, or any other undesirable materials.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the town
by reason of such violation.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is liable
to have his or her water disconnected from the premises after notice, and the
town shall incur no liability whatever for turning off the water under such
circumstances.
   (C)   No provisions of this chapter shall preclude the town from taking such
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the court system of the
state and/or the United States against any person(s) discharging industrial
wastes or other wastes into the POTW’s system contrary to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of
$200, to be recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued written notice of
the violation which must be paid within 30 days after receipt of said notice.
If the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days, the town may recover
such penalty, and all subsequently accruing penalties, in a civil action.
   (E)   Each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the remedies set forth above, all ordinances may also
be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (G)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violations of any provision of
this code of ordinances shall not be a misdemeanor.
   (H)   If any division of this section is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other divisions shall nevertheless continue in full force
and effect.
   (I)   In the event it is necessary for the town to institute a civil action
to collect a civil penalty for the violation of any provisions of any town
ordinance, the offender shall pay all court costs and reasonable attorney’s
fees incurred by the town.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TOWING AND BOOTING
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Generally
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Applicability of regulations to persons propelling pushcarts, riding
bicycles or the like
   
70.03   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
   
70.04   Riding on vehicle not intended for passengers
   
70.05   Riding on vehicle without permission
   
70.06   Duty to stay inside vehicle; hanging onto vehicles
   
70.07   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.08   Unmuffled engine compression brakes
   
70.09   Speed limits
Public Events, Parades, and Street Events
   
70.35   Applicability of regulations
   
70.36   Permit required
   
70.37   Sporting events
   
70.38   Permit application
   
70.39   Staff review
   
70.40   Standards for permit issuance
   
70.41   Denial of permit
   
70.42   Notice of denial
   
70.43   Appeal procedure
   
70.44   Alternative permit
   
70.45   Insurance
   
70.46   Contents of application; parades, marches, and other mobile events
   
70.47   Revocation of permit during event
   
70.48   Duties of permittee
   
70.49   Recouping costs incurred by town
   
70.50   Public conduct during parades
   
70.51   Time restrictions
   
70.52   Assembling for unlawful purposes
   
70.53   Disturbing lawful assembly
   
70.54   Disturbing funerals
   
70.55   Applicant responsible for cleanup
   
70.56   Parking and access
   
70.57   Circuses, carnivals, fairs, and the like
   
70.58   Temporary mobile food sales
   
70.59   Exemption
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate traffic, see G.S. § 160A-300
GENERALLY
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, Police
Department and such ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. The length of that portion of any street which is located between two
adjacent street intersections.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway, when 50% or more
of frontage thereon, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is occupied by
buildings which are in use for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway which lies between the prolongations of
the lateral sidewalk or boundary lines over an intersection. Any portion of a
roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings
on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE. A device primarily on large trucks for the
conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to an air
compressor for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes.
(Commonly referred to as “JAKE” BRAKE, JACOBS BRAKE.)
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongations of the lateral curb
or boundary lines of two or more roadways or highways which join, or which join
and cross one another at an angle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle, but not operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the Town
Council, or an official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually or automatically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily
for the purpose of loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle which is engaged in the business of
transporting persons for fare.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, other than streetcars, with cars
operated on stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other locomotion, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, not including streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway, not comprising a
business district, when the frontage on such highway, for a distance of 300
feet or more, is mainly occupied by residential dwellings, but also by
dwellings or buildings which are in use for business purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway, not
inconsistent with regulations and conditions.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street which has been improved and designed for,
or which is ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, which is either protected or plainly marked at
all times while so set apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, exclusively intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNS. See TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP or STOPPING.
      (1)   When required, complete cessation of movement.
      (2)   When prohibited, any stopping of a vehicle, except when conflict
with other traffic is imminent or when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire area between lateral property lines, which is
open to the use of the public, as a matter or right, for purposes of vehicular
traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC SIGNS. Authorized signs or markers which are assumed to be
permanently or temporarily placed, erected or installed at certain places and
which purport to give notice of direction or to convey a prohibition or
warning; the presence of such signs, though not compulsory, is generally
dictated by necessity or common sense, with a view to furtherance of public
safety.
   UNMUFFLED ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE. A motor vehicle brake which is activated
or worked by compression of the engine of a motor vehicle, which is not
effectively muffled to prevent excessive noise.
   VEHICLE. Every device in or upon which any person or property may be
transported, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon fixed
rails or tracks; provided that, for the purposes of this chapter, a bicycle or
a ridden animal shall also be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions relative to motor vehicles, see G.S. § 20-4.01
§ 70.02 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS TO PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS, RIDING
BICYCLES OR THE LIKE.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to
the provisions of this traffic code, which are applicable to the driver of any
vehicle, except those provisions of this traffic code which, by their nature,
can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 RIDING ON VEHICLE NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle not
designated or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended
for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 RIDING ON VEHICLE WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 DUTY TO STAY INSIDE VEHICLE; HANGING ONTO VEHICLES.
   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond the
limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give such signals
as are by law required, and no person shall hang onto any vehicle whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 70.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed which indicate no parking
zones or safety zones, the driver of a vehicle shall obey such regulatory
indications.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to alter turning methods by placement of buttons, markers
and the like, see G.S. § 20-153
   Obedience of pedestrians to traffic-control devices, see G.S. § 20-172
   Signs and signals, see G.S. § 20-158
§ 70.08 UNMUFFLED ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the town unless the exhaust
system is free from defects affecting sound reduction.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the town when the exhaust system
of the motor vehicle has been removed, modified such that sound emission has
been increased, the muffler cut-out or the muffler bypassed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the town using an unmuffled
engine compression brake.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to emergency driving situations requiring
the utilization of an engine compression brake to protect the safety and
property of the general public, the motor vehicle operator or pedestrians.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The town adopts the following speed limits on state-maintained roads
inside the town limits to concur with the enacted speed limits that have been
set by the state’s Department of Transportation:
State Roads Posted Speed Limit
State Roads            Posted Speed Limit
Balm Highway           35
Banner Elk Highway     35
Beech Mountain Parkway 35
Dobbins Road           55
Hickory Nut Gap Road   25
Main Street East       25
Main Street West       25
Shawneehaw Avenue      25
Tynecastle Highway     35
 
   (B)   The town adopts the following speed limits on the streets listed:
Street Name Speed Limit
Street Name          Speed Limit
Azalea Circle        15
Azalea Way           15
Balsam Lane          20
Banner Road          15
Bear Club Lane       15
Beech Haven Road     20
Brookview Lane       15
Central Way          15
Charles Lowe Lane    15
Cinnamon Fern Lane   20
College Drive        15
Cook Alley           15
Crooked Creek Lane   20
Culver Street        15
Dogwood Road         20
Dugger Drive         20
Elementary Way       15
Elkmont Lane         20
Elkview Place        20
Galax Drive          20
Glendale Place       20
Heather Lane         20
Hemlock Place        20
Hickory Circle       20
Highland Drive       20
Hillcrest Lane       15
Hillside Drive       15
Ivy Court SE         15
Ivy Court SW         15
King Luscious        20
Klonestka Drive      20
Laurel Lane          15
Lecka Lane           15
Lees McRae Drive     15
Liberty Lane         20
Mallard Court        20
Maple Court          15
Mcintosh Way         20
Meadow Lane          15
Mill Pond Road       15
Mountain Vista Lane  20
Old Hotel Road       15
Old Turnpike E Road  15
Old Turnpike W Road  20
Orchard Lane         20
Park Avenue          15
Penny Lane           20
Perry Road           15
Puddingstone Parkway 20
Rabbit Run           20
Red Delicious        20
Robert Cook Lane     20
Running Bear Circle  20
Shawneehaw Heights   15
Silver Springs Drive 20
Supreme Golden Lane  20
Wakley Way           15
Walnut Way           20
William Pride Lane   20
Willow Way           20
Wood Lilly           20
 
(Ord. passed 7-9-2012; Ord. passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
PUBLIC EVENTS, PARADES, AND STREET EVENTS
§ 70.35 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all fairs, festivals, carnivals, parades,
concerts, races, marches, rallies, demonstrations, and other activities or
public outdoor events that:
      (1)   Take place upon or require the temporary closing or obstruction of
all or a portion of any street or other public right-of-way or that
substantially hinders or prevents the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic along any street, sidewalk, square, avenue, publicly maintained trail,
or other public right-of-way;
      (2)   Are anticipated to place demands upon town services or personnel
such that so great a number of employees are diverted from their normal
activities that normal and routine functions cannot be performed without
additional assistance or within the normal time frame; or
      (3)   Are anticipated to draw a crowd of more than 100 individuals.
   (B)   Any such activity covered by this subchapter shall hereafter be
referred to as “the event.”
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.36 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall run, operate, or sponsor any event inside the town,
whether tickets are sold or not, on either public or private property, without
a permit obtained from the Police Department in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   For events which are recurring and are anticipated to be conducted in
the same manner with similar sized attendance, an applicant may apply for a
permit which covers all such events within that calendar year upon a single
permit. In issuing such a permit, the town shall have the right to require the
applicant to make changes or alterations to their plans and preparations based
upon the conditions and issues encountered during the course of the events.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 SPORTING EVENTS.
   Collegiate sporting events shall not be required to obtain a permit, so long
as the host of any such event notifies the town of the event and its type at
least ten days prior to the occurrence of such event.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.38 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for the permit authorized by this subchapter shall be
filed with the Police Chief including:
      (1)   The email and telephone number of the person, organization, or
entity seeking to conduct or sponsor the event;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the individual in charge
of the event;
      (3)   The proposed date and time period when the event is requested to be
conducted;
      (4)   A sketch-map showing:
         (a)   The area where the event is to take place, including assembly
areas;
         (b)   Any streets to be closed or obstructed or subject to heavy foot
or vehicular traffic;
         (c)   The location of any proposed barriers or traffic-control devices
that will be erected;
         (d)   The location of any concession stand, booth, or other temporary
structures or facilities; and
         (e)   The location of proposed fencing, stands, platforms, or seating
areas.
      (5)   The approximate number of people expected to attend the event;
      (6)   The hours when the event will start and terminate;
      (7)   A statement as to whether the event will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed, if any;
      (8)   When applicable, a request that the town provide specified services
and/or that the town close identified streets or portions of streets for a
particular period;
      (9)   Proof of liability insurance in the minimum amounts set forth in §
70.45 of this subchapter; and
      (10)   The property owner of the location for the event. If the applicant
is not the property owner, written permission from the property owner for the
event shall be provided.
   (B)   A fee may be required to be paid upon application for a permit,
according to the town fee schedule.
   (C)   If events require no significant town services, the Town Council may
waive the event fee set forth above upon a finding by the Town Council that the
benefits to the town created by the event outweigh the expense and imposition
on town staff and resources created by the event.
   (D)   Events of varying sizes require more time in which to properly plan
and staff. The application for the event shall be submitted by the following
deadlines:
 
Event in excess of 1,000 persons 120 days prior to the event
Event 500 to 1,000 persons       60 days prior to the event
Event 250 to 500 persons         30 days prior to the event
Event less than 250 persons      7 days prior to the event
 
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.39 STAFF REVIEW.
   Upon receipt of the permit application, the Police Chief or designee shall
circulate it to the Town Manager, as well Public Works and the Planning and
Zoning Department. The Town Manager or Chief of Police may arrange a conference
on the application with the applicant and one or more members of town staff. To
ensure compliance with this subchapter, the town may require additional
information or require that the applicant take additional actions, including
the production of detailed event maps, medical treatment plans, evacuation
plans, safety plans, security plans, parking plans, shuttle plans, inclement
weather plans, or any other plan that town staff may require as necessary for a
safe and orderly event.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.40 STANDARDS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Town Manager or designee shall issue the permit authorizing the event
permit as provided for hereunder when, from a consideration of the application
and from any other information that may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds
that:
   (A)   The application is complete and filed in a timely manner;
   (B)   The conduct of the event will not substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (C)   The conduct of the event will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
town;
   (D)   The conduct of the event will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and area
contiguous thereto;
   (E)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the event will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (F)   The conduct of the event will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (G)   The conduct of the event is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property;
   (H)   The applicant has obtained any necessary permits and licenses,
including any required building permits or privilege licenses;
   (I)   The applicant is in compliance with all other town ordinances;
   (J)   The applicant has completed all communication plans and emergency
plans of action in accordance with their consultation with town department
heads;
   (K)   On the condition the event is mobile, that it is scheduled to move
from its point of origin to its point of termination expeditiously and without
reasonable delays en route; and
   (L)   The event complies with all other requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.41 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Without regard to any other provision of this subchapter, the Town
Manager, or his or her designee, shall deny the application for a permit
provided for by this subchapter when, based upon the information available to
them, there is non-compliance with the permit requirements, local ordinance, or
state or federal law.
   (B)   In the event the event applicant/coordinator fails to attend scheduled
meetings with town staff, fails to produce requested documentation in a timely
manner, or is materially out of compliance with the terms of the permit, the
Town Manager or designee may cancel or suspend the event permit.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.42 NOTICE OF DENIAL.
   If the application is denied, the Town Clerk or designee shall notify the
applicant as soon as is practicable after the date upon which the application
was denied, by certified mail, stating the reason for denial of the permit.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.43 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of an event
permit to the Town Manager. The appeal shall be made in writing within ten days
of receipt of the notice of denial of the permit. The Town Manager shall act
upon the appeal within ten days after its receipt.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.44 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Manager or Police Chief, in denying an application for an
event permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the event on a
date, at a time, or over a route different from that named by the applicant.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within 72
hours after notice of the action town, file a written notice of acceptance with
the Police Chief.
   (C)   An alternate event permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of an event permit under the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.45 INSURANCE.
   (A)   No event permit in excess of 250 persons may be granted unless the
applicant has demonstrated to the town sufficient proof that they have obtained
a comprehensive general liability insurance policy or comparable special events
liability insurance policy from an insurance company licensed to do business in
this state, with coverage that includes the entire area of the event. Such
coverage shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of the event.
The town shall be named as an additional insured on such a policy.
   (B)   The policy limits of such insurance shall not be less than:
      (1)   Property damage: $100,000 for each occurrence; and
      (2)   Bodily injury or death: $1,000,000 for each person and $2,000,000
for entire event.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION; PARADES, MARCHES, AND OTHER MOBILE EVENTS.
   Each event permit shall include the following information if the event is
mobile:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
event;
   (E)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the event;
   (F)   The maximum length of the event in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Proposed plans for vehicular traffic to avoid unnecessary delay to the
motoring public; and
   (H)   Proposed plan for control of intersections to control traffic flow and
pedestrian, bicycle, or vehicular movement.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.47 REVOCATION OF PERMIT DURING EVENT.
   The Town Manager, Chief of Police, or their designee shall have the
authority to revoke or suspend an event permit issued under this subchapter in
the event of non-compliance with any of the conditions set forth herein. At any
point the conditions surrounding an event become a danger to the general
public, whether due to the weather, unruly crowds, structural issues, or any
other problem that creates a dangerous situation where injury to members of the
public is a strong possibility, the Town Manager, Chief of Police, or designee,
upon notice to the permittee if time permits, may suspend the permit and shut
down the event, in whole or in part, and institute an orderly evacuation of the
event area.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.48 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee under this subchapter shall comply with all permit
directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The permittee or other person heading or leading the event shall carry
the event permit upon his or her person during the conduct of the event.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.49 RECOUPING COSTS INCURRED BY TOWN.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay to the town a fee sufficient to reimburse the
town for the costs of any extraordinary services or equipment provided unless
the services to be provided by the town at the event have been budgeted by the
Town Council as an expense of the town.
   (B)   For police coverage, an applicant may choose to hire off-duty
uniformed officers at a negotiated rate between the event and the officers. Any
such officers shall be certified as state law enforcement officers and hold a
certification with a state law enforcement agency.
   (C)   For events where the anticipated number of people is in excess of 500
people, the applicant shall pay to the town the estimated cost of such
extraordinary services at least 30 days prior to the start of the event. In
lieu of making this payment, the applicant may post a bond or other sufficient
security to guarantee compliance with this section, including the payment of
the fees described in division (A) above and the cleaning up of the event site
to return it to the condition that existed prior to the event. If the required
bond or deposit is not promptly paid, the Town Manager, Chief of Police, or
designee may cancel the permit for the event.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or animal
participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade, and the Chief of
Police shall post signs to this effect. No person shall park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation of any such sign.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   All outdoor events, with the exception of those held on New Year’s Eve,
shall conclude its operations for the day no later than 11:00 p.m. Any event
held on New Year’s Eve shall conclude its operations for the day no later than
12:30 a.m. on January 1 of the current New Year’s Eve.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.52 ASSEMBLING FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   No person shall collect in any group or crowd for any unlawful purpose.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   No person shall disturb or interrupt in any way any lawful assembly, any
meeting for religious worship, or any school or college while the students are
engaged in study.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.54 DISTURBING FUNERALS.
   No person shall willfully disturb, interrupt, or disquiet any assemblage of
people who have met for the purpose of any funeral, or obstruct or detain any
persons engaged in accompanying any funeral to a place of burial.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.55 APPLICANT RESPONSIBLE FOR CLEANUP.
   The sponsor of the event (as listed on the application submitted) shall be
responsible for cleaning up any litter caused by the event, removing all
temporary obstructions, and in general, returning the area where the event
takes place to the condition that existed prior to the event. The bond or other
sufficient security required in §
70.48 (C) of this subchapter may include an amount to guarantee compliance with
this section.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56 PARKING AND ACCESS.
   Each event must provide or have available sufficient parking and a vehicular
maneuvering area for customers. Parking must be adequate to accommodate the
proposed event in addition to required parking for any permanent use or uses on
the site. The event shall not create hazardous vehicular or pedestrian traffic
conditions as determined by the Police Chief. Temporary traffic-control
devices, including signage to minimize traffic congestion may be required by
the town. The design and installation of any such devices and signs must be
approved by the Police Chief.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.57 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, FAIRS, AND THE LIKE.
   Commercial circuses may be held at a site once per year for a maximum
duration of five days. Carnivals, fairs, haunted houses, festivals, and similar
events may be held at a site up to four times per year with a maximum duration
of three days per event. Such events may occur only in the C-2, M-E, and CZD
Districts.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.58 TEMPORARY MOBILE FOOD SALES.
   Incidental to an event regulated by this subchapter, temporary mobile food
vendors, pushcarts, or stands may be allowed as provided in §
152.035 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.59 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; or
   (B)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions,
including those events conducted by the town or the Tourism and Development
Authority.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   As provided in G.S. § 14-4(a), any person who violates this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500 for each
violation.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Attaching bicycles, motorcycles, toy vehicles and the like to moving
vehicles
   
71.03   Riding on handlebars, frame and the like; riding without hands on
handlebars
   
71.04   No through traffic on Azalea Circle
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate traffic, see G.S. § 160A-300
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Except in those cases in which speed limits differing from those
provided by state law have been adopted by ordinance of the Town Council where
required by law, and by the erection within the town of signs giving notice of
the authorized speed limits, the speed limits established by state law shall
apply within the town.
   (B)   A schedule of all authorized variations from such limits, together
with copies of ordinances of the Town Council, shall be maintained on file in
the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits listed, see §
70.09
Statutory reference:
   Speed restrictions; authority of town to impose certain speed limits, see
G.S. §§ 20-141, 20-144, 20-145, 20-169
§ 71.02 ATTACHING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, TOY VEHICLES AND THE LIKE TO MOVING
VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach such vehicle or himself or herself to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS, FRAME AND THE LIKE; RIDING WITHOUT HANDS ON
HANDLEBARS.
   (A)   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not
carry any person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of his or her vehicle, nor
shall any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without
having his or her hands on the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 NO THROUGH TRAFFIC ON AZALEA CIRCLE.
   It shall be unlawful for through vehicular traffic to pass through Azalea
Circle for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic-control device.
(Res. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as an infraction and a fine
not to exceed $100.
(Res. passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Stopping generally
   
72.02   Prohibited in specified places
   
72.03   Parking prohibited on certain streets; taxi and bus stands
   
72.04   Time limitation
   
72.05   Prohibited for certain purposes
   
72.06   Manner of parking
   
72.07   Moving cars from parked positions
   
72.08   Removal and storage of vehicles in violation
   
72.09   Two-hour parking
   
72.10   Handicap parking space availability
Emergency Weather Regulations
   
72.20   When emergency deemed to exist
   
72.21   Announcement of emergency; compliance with parking ban
   
72.22   Exceptions to subchapter
   
72.23   Towing and storage
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   State law as to parking, see G.S. §§ 20-161 through 20-163, 20-169, 160A-
296, 160A-301
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 STOPPING GENERALLY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless such stop is made necessary by the
approach of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession
which is given the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by traffic signals, by the passing of some other
vehicle or a pedestrian or by some emergency. In all cases covered by these
exceptions, such vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection.
   (B)   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere
with the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or when so directed by a police officer or
traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk or on the space between the sidewalk and the curb;
   (B)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   On a crosswalk;
   (E)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (G)   Within 50 feet in any direction of the outer edge of a railroad
underpass or overhead bridge;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the closest rail on either side of any street
leading to a grade crossing; provided that, where existing permanent structures
are located closer than 50 feet, parking may be permitted in front of such
structures, unless otherwise prohibited, and if such parking does not block the
view in either direction of the approach of a locomotive or train;
   (I)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (J)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (K)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanitarium or any public building;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopping, standing or parking at
the edge or curb of a street;
   (M)   Within 15 feet of any fire plug or hydrant;
   (N)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
or on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance when properly sign posted;
   (O)   Within 12 feet of the point where the margin of any alley or driveway
of a public business intersects any public street in the town;
   (P)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (Q)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 14 feet; and/or
   (R)   At those places specified on the official traffic maps and at which
signs are placed which prohibit parking or when the curbing has been painted
yellow in lieu of such signs.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking near fire hydrant or entrance to fire station, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 72.03 PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS; TAXI AND BUS STANDS.
   (A)   Upon those streets or portions of streets designated on the official
traffic maps of the town as streets where parking is limited to certain
designated times, no person shall park a vehicle, except in conformity with
such limitations, when signs have been placed, erected or installed and
maintained on such streets giving notice of the applicable limitations.
   (B)   Whenever signs are placed at locations designated on the official
traffic maps, which signs indicate that such locations are reserved for the
parking of taxis, buses and the like, no automobile or other vehicle other than
the type specified shall park at such locations.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 TIME LIMITATION.
   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter or other ordinance of the town,
no automobile, trailer or other vehicle shall remain parked in the same place
on the streets in the town for longer than 120 hours at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons, when such
storage is not incidental to the bona fide use and operation of such vehicle;
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected; and/or
      (5)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another.
   (B)   No person shall stand or park any vehicle on any street for the
primary purpose of advertising.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to
the curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park
any vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line;
except that, upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
   (B)   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to the curb, except when
actually loading or unloading.
   (C)   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking
spaces for cars, the same shall be parked between such lines.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed in.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 REMOVAL AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   Any police officer of the town, upon finding any vehicle parked in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, if the owner or operator is not
present, may have such vehicle moved from the street and placed in storage at
the expense of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.11)
§ 72.09 TWO-HOUR PARKING.
   (A)   Parking is prohibited along the following streets or portions of
streets for a period no longer than two hours: from the town’s Fire Department,
right side of street (Highway 184), to traffic light. The spaces designated for
two-hour parking are visibly marked by signs indicating such.
   (B)   A change of position of vehicle from one point directly to another
point within the same block or parking lot shall be deemed a continuously
parking period.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 HANDICAP PARKING SPACE AVAILABILITY.
   No person or business shall knowingly obstruct, occupy, or cause to be
occupied any parking space marked for handicap parking unless it is by a
vehicle properly displaying a duly issued and valid handicap parking placard.
This restriction shall apply to building materials, personal property, items
associated with said the operation of the business, or any other materials
which would impede use of the handicap parking space as designated.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
EMERGENCY WEATHER REGULATIONS
§ 72.20 WHEN EMERGENCY DEEMED TO EXIST.
   Whenever during any period of 24 hours or less, snow, sleet, ice or any
other similar conditions exist within the corporate limits of the town or in
any section thereof which, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, or in the
absence of the Chief of Police, the Manager or, in the absence of the Manager,
ranking police officer on duty, makes traveling of any public street or road
within the corporate limits of the town, dangerous to the safety of any person
traveling on such streets, then an emergency is declared to exist in that such
conditions constitutes a serious public hazard impairing transportation, the
movement of food and fuel supplies, medical care, fire, health and police
protection and other vital facilities of the town. Such emergency shall
continue until the Chief of Police or, in the absence of the Chief of Police,
the Manager or, in the absence of the Manager, the ranking police officer on
duty shall announce that the emergency has ended, which announcement shall be
made in the same manner as set forth in §
72.21(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.25)
§ 72.21 ANNOUNCEMENT OF EMERGENCY; COMPLIANCE WITH PARKING BAN.
   (A)   Whenever such an emergency exists, the Chief of Police or, in the
absence of the Chief of Police, the Manager or, in the absence of the Manager,
the ranking police offer on duty, shall request the cooperation of the local
press and radio stations, to announce the emergency, and the streets within the
town upon which the emergency regulations are to be imposed and the time that
the emergency regulations are hereinafter set forth shall become effective
which time shall be no sooner than one hour after the first announcement by the
appropriate town official to the news media. Such announcement by the
appropriate town official to the news media shall constitute notice to the
general public of the existence of the emergency. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Chief of Police or, in the absence of the Chief of Police, the
Manager or, in the absence of the Manager, the ranking police officer on duty,
shall cause to be posted upon the streets which are affected by these
regulations, a sign which sign shall read: “Emergency; no parking or
abandonment of vehicles allowed. Four wheel drive, chains or studded snow tires
required.” Notwithstanding the foregoing, the owners and operators of motor
vehicles shall have full responsibility to determine existing weather
conditions and to comply with the emergency regulations and the failure of the
news media to make such announcement or the failure of the town officials to
properly post such announcement or the failure of any owner or operation of a
motor vehicle to hear or learn of the announcement of the existence of the
emergency or of the time that the emergency regulations shall become effective
or of the streets within the town upon which the emergency regulations are to
be imposed shall not excuse such owner or operator from complying with such
emergency regulations, nor shall any such failure be a defense to any action
brought against such owner or operator for violation of this division (A).
   (B)   During the emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to travel on
any street upon which the emergency regulations have been imposed without a
four wheel drive vehicle or a vehicle which has chains or studded snow tires on
the drive wheels of such vehicle during the period beginning one hour after the
first announcement of the emergency to the news media by the appropriate town
official and continuing until such time as the announcement shall have been
made to the news media by the appropriate town official or until such time as
the appropriate town official shall have caused to be removed, the notice from
the affected street of the emergency, whichever event occurs first.
   (C)   During the emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or
cause to be parked, or to abandon or leave unattended any vehicle of any kind
or description upon any street upon which the emergency parking regulations
have been imposed during the period beginning one hour after the first
announcement of emergency to the news media by the appropriate town official
and continuing until such time as snow plowing operations shall have been
completed on any particular street upon which it is proposed to park, abandon
or leave unattended such vehicle, or until such time as the announcement shall
have been made to the news media, by the appropriate town official that snow
plowing operations have been completed, whichever event occurs first. If snow
plowing operations shall have been completed upon any street upon which the
emergency parking regulations have been imposed, and if additional snow in any
amounts shall later fall on any such street, and if additional snow shall fall
during the period of such emergency, and before the announcement to the news
media by the appropriate town official that such snow plowing operations have
been completed, it shall be unlawful for any person to park, or cause to be
parked, or to abandon or to leave unattended any vehicle of any kind or
description upon such street until such snow plowing operations shall have been
completed upon such street or until such announcement to the news media by the
appropriate town official that snow plowing operations have been completed,
whichever event occurs first.
(Prior Code, § 72.26) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 EXCEPTIONS TO SUBCHAPTER.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, vehicles may be parked for a period of no
longer than three minutes for loading or unloading of passengers; 30 minutes
for actual loading or unloading of personal property; provided that, no other
ordinance restricting parking as to the place or time is thereby violated.
(Prior Code, § 72.27)
§ 72.23 TOWING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the law enforcement officers of the town to
see that the provisions of this subchapter are enforced within the town, and
any such officer(s) shall have power to arrest on sight, or upon warrant, any
person found violating the provisions of this subchapter. Such officer(s) shall
have the power to stop any motor vehicle upon the roads and streets of the
town, for the purpose of determining whether the same is being operated in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   In addition to the general penalty for violation of this chapter, any
vehicle found parked on any street in the town in violation of this provision
may be removed, on order of any police officer of the town, to a place of
storage and shall there remain until redeemed by its owner or operator. Before
redeeming such vehicle, the owner or operator thereof shall pay to the person
towing such vehicle to the place of storage at the request of the police
officer, all sums due for removing such vehicle from the street to the place of
storage and all further sums due to the party storing such vehicle, for storing
such vehicle until redeemed by the owner or operator. All such sums due are
declared as liens against the motor vehicle involved in favor of the party
rendering the towing or storage service as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 72.28)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each police officer of the town, charged by ordinance with the
enforcement of this chapter regulating the parking of vehicles shall find that
any of those provisions are being, or have been violated, by the owner or
operator of any vehicle, such officer shall notify the owner or operator by
conspicuously attaching to the vehicle a parking violation, notice or citation.
   (B)   A civil penalty in the amount as set forth on the town’s Fee Schedule
shall be imposed for any vehicle parked in a space clearly marked as reserved
for the handicapped whether on public or private property, unless the driver
of, or passenger in, such vehicle is handicapped. Vehicle carrying said
occupants shall display a “Handicapped” symbol.
   (C)   A civil penalty in the amount as set forth on the town’s Fee Schedule
shall be imposed for any violation under these provisions, except those
violations under division (B) above, if the penalty is paid within 48 hours. A
civil penalty in the amount of $100 shall apply in those cases which have not
been paid within the prescribed 48-hour period and in which a civil action
shall have been instituted.
   (D)   An appeal to the Town Manager or designee within ten days of the
notice of violation may be requested by the person cited under these
provisions. The Town Manager or designee will set a time, date and location for
such hearing.
   (E)   All penalties paid to the town or as may be recovered in the civil
action in the nature of a debt as herein provided shall be paid into the
General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. passed 10-2-1989)
CHAPTER 73: TOWING AND BOOTING
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Authority for and scope of chapter
   
73.03   Advanced notice of trespass towing or booting required
   
73.04   Trespass towing practices
   
73.05   Booting practices
   
73.06   Notice of fees and payment options; fees to be reasonable
   
73.07   Receipts
   
73.08   Complaint information
   
73.09   Compliance dates
   
73.10   Restrictions related to certain criminal convictions
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOT.
      (1)   A wheel lock or any other instrument that is attached to a motor
vehicle in order to immobilize it.
      (2)   As context requires, BOOTING can include any or all of the
activities involved in controlling unauthorized parking by means of
immobilization of a vehicle, including, but not limited to, applying a boot,
monitoring parking lots for unauthorized vehicles and/or demanding or accepting
payment to remove a boot. IMMOBILIZATION may be used interchangeably with
BOOTING herein.
   BOOTING SERVICE. Includes any person or entity that engages in, or that owns
or operates a business that engages in, the booting of motor vehicles for
compensation.
   ESTABLISHMENT. The use of a structure for a commercial purpose.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A Class A, B or C motor vehicle as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01
(23).
   PRIVATE PARKING LOT. Any privately-owned area created, designated or used
for the parking of two or more vehicles. As used herein, PRIVATE PARKING LOT
does not include driveways, garages or other parking areas or yards of single-
family or duplex residences.
   TOWING COMPANY. Includes any person or entity that engages in, or that owns
or operates a business that engages in, the towing of motor vehicles for
compensation.
   TRESSPASS TOW. To tow a motor vehicle that is parked on a private parking
lot without the property owner’s or agent’s consent without the consent of the
motor vehicle’s owner or operator (i.e., a non-consensual tow).
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.02 AUTHORITY FOR AND SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted in furtherance of the town’s authority to
define, prohibit, regulate or abate acts, omissions or conditions, detrimental
to the health, safety or welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of
the town, as granted per G.S. § 160A-174, and its authority to regulate and
license occupations, businesses and trades, and prohibit those that may be
inimical to the public health, welfare, safety, order or convenience, as
granted per G.S. § 160A-194(a).
   (B)   This chapter is applicable to any trespass tow or booting that takes
place for compensation in a private parking lot in the town limits, except as
provided in division (D) below.
   (C)   No towing company may engage in any trespass tow from a private
parking lot in the town limits or charge any fee in connection therewith, and
no booting service may immobilize a vehicle in a private parking lot in the
town limits or charge any fee in connection therewith, unless the trespass tow
or booting complies with all requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter is not intended to limit, modify or abrogate:
      (1)   The authority of police, Fire Department or other public officers
to direct the towing or immobilization of a motor vehicle as authorized by
other provisions of the town code or state law;
      (2)   The towing of vehicles encroaching into areas clearly designated as
fire lanes; or
      (3)   A property owner’s right to tow vehicles blocking clearly
designated areas of ingress and/or egress or right to tow vehicles blocking
access to a dumpster so long as signage conspicuously warns that a vehicle
blocking access to the dumpster is subject to towing.
   (E)   This chapter does not limit other legal remedies that a property owner
may have against a person trespassing on private property, but only applies to
and limits the use of trespass towing and booting as specified herein.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.03 ADVANCE NOTICE OF TRESPASS TOWING OR BOOTING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to authorize, direct, engage
in or contract for trespass towing or booting in a private parking lot unless
advance notice is given as follows:
   (A)   The parking lot has one or more warning signs posted at such locations
and heights so as to provide a conspicuous warning to drivers of vehicles who
are not familiar with that parking lot that the lot is private and that
unauthorized vehicles will be towed or booted.
      (1)   Each sign shall be no smaller than one square foot and no larger
than three square feet, with a white background and red letters, printed in
fonts that can easily be read by a person of ordinary vision, and shall contain
the following information, as applicable:
         (a)   That the parking lot is a private parking lot and that
unauthorized vehicles will be towed or immobilized and subject to a fine/fee
for removal of the boot (e.g., “Private Parking Lot - Towing Enforced” or
“Private Parking Lot - Unauthorized Vehicles Will Be Immobilized and Fined” or
“Parking for Customers Only - Towing Enforced” or “Parking for Residents Only -
Unauthorized Vehicles Will Be Immobilized and Fined” or similar phrasing); and
         (b)   The name and telephone number of the towing company and/or
booting service that enforces parking in that lot.
      (2)   If applicable, the following information must be contained either
on the warning sign(s) required per the preceding division (A)(1) above or on
separate sign(s) attached immediately adjacent on the same post or structure:
         (a)   If the parking lot serves a shopping center, mall or office
building, then at the option of the property owner or lessor either:
            1.   The name of the shopping center or mall or office building; or
            2.   The names of all businesses within that shopping center or
mall or office building, and a warning that parking is authorized only for
persons patronizing that shopping center or mall or office building.
         (b)   If the parking lot serves multiple locations (other than a
shopping center or mall or office building), the name of every establishment
served by the parking lot and a warning that parking is authorized only for
persons patronizing one of those establishments.
      (3)   There shall be a minimum of one warning sign for each vehicular
entrance to the parking lot and such other signs as are required so that an
ordinary driver who is not familiar with that parking lot is warned by the
signage upon entering the parking lot, exiting his or her vehicle and/or upon
exiting the parking lot as a pedestrian that the lot is private and that
unauthorized vehicles are subject to towing or booting;
      (4)   One or more police officers designated by the Chief of Police (the
“liaison officer”) shall direct and approve the number and placement of warning
signs in his or her reasonable discretion to ensure that signs are conspicuous
to warn vehicle drivers as specified per the foregoing provisions of this
division (A). If the property owner or lessee disagrees with the direction
provided by the liaison officer, the owner or lessee may appeal to the Chief of
Police. The determination of the Chief of Police shall be final and non-
appealable; and
      (5)   If one or more credible complaints are received by the Police
Department from any person to the effect that the warning signs posted on a
parking lot are not sufficiently conspicuous as required per this division (A),
the liaison-officer shall re-consider the sign layout and may require the
relocation of signs or the installation of new signs.
   (B)   All signs posted in accordance with this chapter must meet the design
standards of the town’s Sign Ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.04 TOWING ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unoccupied vehicles left on driveways, in garages or other parking
areas of single-family, duplex or other residential property may be towed after
48 hours. The regulations set forth in §
73.03 of this chapter shall not apply to this section.
   (B)   Unoccupied vehicles left on areas of property which are not designated
or intended for parking, such as yards, sidewalks and other areas, may be towed
immediately. The regulations set forth in §
73.03 of this chapter shall not apply to this section.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.05 TRESPASS TOWING PRACTICES.
   (A)   An occupied vehicle may not be towed or attached to a towing vehicle.
   (B)   A towing company may not attempt to impede or block an occupied
vehicle from being removed from a parking lot by its owner or operator.
   (C)   A towing company must accept at least two nationally-recognized credit
cards (such as MasterCard or Visa) and any debit card in payment for any fees
charged in connection with a trespass tow.
   (D)   Whenever a towing company is attempting a trespass tow, but the
vehicle has not yet been removed from the parking lot, and the owner or
operator of the vehicle appears and states a desire that the vehicle not be
towed, the towing company shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator
upon the payment of its noticed fees and charges.
   (E)   A towing service engaged in a trespass tow shall, upon request of the
owner or operator of the motor vehicle, permit the owner or operator access to
the trespass vehicle for the purpose of retrieving personal property from the
vehicle. If personal items are removed from the motor vehicle by the towing
service, then upon request those items will be returned to the owner or
operator.
   (F)   A towing company that engages in a trespass tow shall, prior to or
immediately upon removing the vehicle from the private parking lot, report to
the town’s Police Department by telephone to its non-emergency number the fact
that a vehicle is to be towed and shall provide a description of the vehicle
including make, color and license tag number, the parking lot from which it is
to be towed, and the place it is to be stored.
   (G)   For two hours immediately following a trespass tow and during the next
business day, the towing company must respond within one hour to a telephone
call from the vehicle’s owner or operator to the contact number provided by the
towing company. During its response call, upon the request of the operator or
owner of the towed vehicle, the towing company must make arrangements for the
release of the vehicle upon the full payment of fees.
      (1)   The towing company must arrange for and allow the full payment of
fees within one hour of responding to a call from the owner or operator of the
vehicle. If the towing company is located more than ten miles from the location
from which the vehicle was towed, and the owner or operator has requested the
opportunity and indicated a willingness to pay the fees, but states an
inability to obtain transportation to the location of the vehicle, the company
must travel to the location of the operator or owner of the towed vehicle to
allow the full payment of fees to be made. The towing company may charge an
additional fee for this service.
      (2)   The towing company must arrange for the release of the towed
vehicle within one hour of payment. If the vehicle is more than ten miles from
the location from which it was towed, the company must return the vehicle to
the public street nearest the location from which the vehicle was towed within
one hour of payment. The towing company may charge an additional fee for this
service.
   (H)   No storage fee may be charged for days when the towing company is not
open during the full normal business hours of at least 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
for the recovery of a trespass towed vehicle. A towing company that is not open
for the recovery of a towed vehicle 24 hours a day shall not charge a storage
fee for the storage of the towed vehicle until at least one full business day
(no less than 24 hours) has elapsed from the time the towing company is next
open for the recovery of a towed vehicle after the towing.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.06 BOOTING PRACTICES.
   (A)   An occupied vehicle may not be booted.
   (B)   A booting service may not attempt to impede or block an owner or
operator from removing a vehicle upon which a boot has not yet been affixed.
   (C)   A booting service must accept at least two nationally-recognized
credit cards (MasterCard or Visa) and any debit card in payment for any and all
fees charged in coin, with booting.
   (D)   After immobilizing a vehicle, the booting service must place a
weather-proof (e.g., laminated) notice on the driver’s side windshield and/or
the driver’s side window of the car, affixed in manner that will not mar the
vehicle, but will ensure that the notice will not blow away. This notice must
be brightly colored (e.g., yellow or orange), a minimum of eight and one-half
inches by 11 inches, and contain the following information, all of which shall
be in a large, plainly readable type:
      (1)   In capital letters: “YOUR VEHICLE HAS BEEN WHEEL-LOCKED BECAUSE IT
WAS PARKED IN A PRIVATE LOT WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION. DO NOT DRIVE THIS VEHICLE OR
YOU MAY DAMAGE YOUR CAR AND THE WHEEL LOCK”;
      (2)   All fees that may be charged prior to release of the vehicle;
      (3)   That all fees may be paid by cash, credit card or debit card; and
      (4)   A telephone number to call to have the wheel lock removed. The fees
that may be charged must be specifically and precisely disclosed; that is, the
notice may not refer to minimum or maximum fees or a range of fees.
   (E)   A booting service must arrange to respond to a telephone call from the
owner or operator of an immobilized vehicle within no more than one hour.
   (F)   A booting service must make a reasonable effort to release the
immobilized vehicle within one hour of responding to the telephone call from
the owner or operator of an immobilized vehicle.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.07 NOTICE OF FEES AND PAYMENT OPTIONS; FEES TO BE REASONABLE.
   (A)   With respect to every trespass tow or booting subject to this chapter,
plain and conspicuous notice must be given to the owner or operator of the
vehicle:
      (1)   (a)   As to any fee that may be charged in connection with the
trespass tow or booting, including storage and any other fee or charge of any
nature; and
         (b)   That credit and debit cards may be used for payment of any and
all such fees. Fees must be specifically and precisely disclosed; the notice
may not refer to minimum or maximum fees or a range of fees.
      (2)   Notice may be given:
         (a)   On the parking lot warning sign(s) to be posted as provided at §
73.03(A) or (B)(2) of this chapter;
         (b)   On the weather-resistant notices to be attached to the vehicle’s
windshield as provided at §§
73.03(C) or
73.05(F) of this chapter, in the same or a larger type size than that used for
the other information provided in the notice;
         (c)   On the vehicle insignia on the towing vehicle or booting service
vehicle; provided that, such vehicle is easily viewable by the owner or
operator of the vehicle when arrangements are being made for payment of the
towing or booting fees; or
         (d)   In large, easily-readable type on a pre-printed schedule of
fees, not less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches, provided to the
owner or operator of the vehicle prior to the payment of fees.
   (B)   Any towing company engaged in trespass towing shall post in a
conspicuous location at its place(s) of business and in size sufficient to be
easily read a schedule of fees that states, at a minimum, its consensual towing
fee(s), its trespass towing fee, its daily storage fee and its hours of
operation. The schedule of fees shall be posted in a location(s) so that a
person may obtain the information at times when the towing company is not open
for business.
   (C)   Any towing company or booting service engaged in activities subject to
this chapter must provide a schedule of all its fees and charges to the Police
Department, and such schedule of fees must be kept current at all times. Fees
must be specifically and precisely disclosed; the required schedule of fees may
not refer to minimum or maximum fees or to a range of fees.
   (D)   A towing company or booting service may not assess any fee or other
charge in connection with a trespass tow or booting that is not both:
      (1)   Publicly noticed as required per divisions (A) and (B) above; and
      (2)   Set forth in a schedule of fees and charges that has been on file
with the Police Department for at least 24 hours prior to the assessment of the
fee. In the case of any discrepancy in the amount of a fee or other charge
noticed by posting in any manner provided at division (A) above or provided to
the Police Department on a schedule of fees, only the lowest fee or other
charge so noticed may be charged.
   (E)   Any fee charged in connection with a trespass tow or booting regulated
under this chapter must be reasonable in relation to the cost of providing the
service or item, inclusive of reasonable overhead and profit.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.08 RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Upon receiving payment for a trespass tow or release of a boot, and
whether requested or not, the towing company or booting service shall prepare a
receipt and offer a copy of the receipt to the person providing payment. The
receipt shall provide in legible print:
      (1)   A breakdown of individual fees charged;
      (2)   The total amount paid and method of payment;
      (3)   The name of the person accepting the payment;
      (4)   A clear and accurate reason for the towing or booting and the date,
place and time of the towing or booting; and
      (5)   The appeals process, if any, provided to contest the tow or
booting.
   (B)   The towing company or booting service shall maintain copies of these
receipts on file for at least 12 months and shall provide copies to the Police
Department upon request.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.09 COMPLAINT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Any person who pays for a trespass tow or booting subject to this
chapter must be provided, in an easily readable and conspicuous format, the
name and telephone number of the property owner, lessor or property manager to
whom complaints about the trespass tow or booting may be directed. The person
or company to whom complaints are to be directed may not be a towing company,
booting service or any employee, representative, officer, agent or affiliate
thereof.
   (B)   The aforesaid information may be provided by any of the following
methods:
      (1)   On the parking lot warning sign(s) to be posted as provided at §
73.03(A) or (B)(2) of this chapter, or on a separate sign attached to the same
sign post or immediately adjacent on the same structure; or
      (2)   On a weather-resistant notice attached to the vehicle’s windshield
as provided at sections §§
73.03(C) or
73.05(F) of this chapter, in the same or a larger type size than that used for
the other information provided in the notice; or
      (3)   In large, easily-readable type on a pre-printed notice, not less
than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches, provided to the owner or operator
of the vehicle prior to the payment of fees.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.10 COMPLIANCE DATES.
   This chapter shall be effective on 11-1-2018.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.11 RESTRICTIONS RELATED TO CERTAIN CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS.
   A person may not engage in trespass towing or booting activities in the town
limits involving direct interaction with the public if, within the prior ten
years, that person has been convicted in any jurisdiction for any one of the
following crimes: assault; communicating threats; homicide; sexual assault;
crimes against nature; incest; indecent exposure; kidnapping; larceny;
possession of stolen goods; embezzlement; robbery; extortion; burglary;
breaking and entering; felony fraud; obtaining property by false pretenses;
weapons offenses; or offenses involving financial transactions.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 14-4(a), any person who violates this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500
for each violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $100. In the event there is more than one violation
within any one-year period, then the civil penalty shall be increased for each
additional violation over one during such period, as follows:
      (1)   Second offense within one year: $250;
      (2)   Third offense within one year: $500;
      (3)   Fourth offense within one year: $750; and
      (4)   Fifth and any subsequent offense within one year: $1,000.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-175(f), any one, all or any combination of
the foregoing penalties and remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Authority for and scope of chapter
   
74.03   Operation of golf carts allowed; exceptions
   
74.04   License required
   
74.05   Registration
   
74.06   Rules and regulations
   
74.07   Disclaimer and liability
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by North Carolina or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A electric vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a
golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
(G.S. § 20-4.01)
   OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 74.02 AUTHORITY FOR AND SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted in furtherance of the town’s authority to
define, prohibit, regulate or abate acts, omissions or conditions, detrimental
to the health, safety or welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of
the town, as granted per G.S. § 160A-174, and its authority to regulate the
operation of golf carts within its municipal limits or on property owned or
leased by the town, as granted per G.S. § 160A-300.6.
   (B)   This subchapter is applicable to the operation of a golf cart within
the town.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 74.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ALLOWED FOR SPECIAL EVENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General. The operation of golf carts is allowed on the public streets,
roads and highways within the town and on property owned or leased by the town
only upon the issuance of a special event permit and in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter shall be permitted; however, it shall be unlawful
to operate any golf cart that is not properly registered with the town or to
operate any golf cart at any place or in any manner not authorized herein.
   (B)   Exceptions. The operation of golf carts is not subject to the
provisions of this subchapter under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs or on
private property, with the consent of the owner; or
      (2)   The operation of golf carts within gated or limited access
communities unless the streets of the community are dedicated for public use
and maintained by the town.
   (C)   Special event permit required. A golf cart regulated under this
section may be used upon roads specified in a special event permit, which may
be obtained from the Town Manager. Such permits shall not exceed a 48-hour
period, and any individual or organization may not obtain more than four
permits for any calendar year, and shall be issued for certain hours of
daylight operation and upon such roads as may be set forth in the permit. The
Town Manager, in reviewing the special event permit, may deny such permit only
if:
      (1)   The proposed use of the golf cart presents a risk to the safety of
the users of the golf cart, the general public, the motoring public or property
within the town; or
      (2)   The proposed use of the golf cart would unnecessarily delay or
hinder the movement of traffic within the town.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person who is less than 16 years of age or who does not have a valid
driver’s license issued under or granted by the laws of North Carolina or some
other state, may operate a golf cart on any public street, road or highway
within the town or on any property owned or leased by the town. For purposes of
this section, a learner’s permit shall not be considered as a valid driver’s
license, nor shall any license that has been revoked, temporary or otherwise,
or suspended for any reason, be considered as a valid driver’s license, during
the period of suspension or revocation.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   No golf cart may be operated on any public street, road or highway
within the town or on property owned or leased by the town unless the golf cart
has first been registered with the town’s Police Department, as required
herein.
      (2)   The registration shall be renewed thereafter in accordance with the
provisions of this section. To evidence the registration, the owner shall be
issued a limited use permit which shall be displayed in a prominent, visible
place on the rear fender of the golf cart or at such other place as may be
approved by the town.
      (3)   The permit may contain a registration number assigned for the
particular golf cart and may contain an expiration date.
   (B)   Registration fee. A registration fee in the amount as may be
established and published in the Schedule of Fees and Charges adopted by the
Town Council from time to time, as amended, shall be paid to the town at the
time the application for registration is filed with the town or for any renewal
of the application.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The application for registration shall be made to the town’s Police
Chief or his or her designee, or to some other person designated by him or her,
on forms provided by the town.
      (2)   The application may, among other things, require the owner’s name,
street address, mailing address, a phone number, the make, model and
identification or serial number of the golf cart, proof of insurance and such
other information as may be reasonably required as well as a release or
disclaimer of liability by the town for accidents involving the registered golf
cart.
   (D)   Procedures. The Police Chief for the town or his or her designee may
establish written procedures, consistent with this subchapter, setting out the
process and the procedure, including the form of the application, the check
list for items to be inspected and the type of sticker, plate or tag evidencing
the issuance of the registration permit.
   (E)   Inspection. Prior to issuing the initial registration permit or any
renewal thereof, the golf cart shall either be inspected or in place of
inspection, the Police Chief may require photographs submitted of the golf
cart, to determine that:
      (1)   The golf cart is equipped with a rear vision mirror and at least
two red rear reflectors at least three inches in height and width;
      (2)   The golf cart is equipped with a reflective “slow moving sign” or
“flag” on the rear of the cart;
      (3)   The brakes provided by the manufacturer of the golf cart are in
proper working order;
      (4)   The golf cart has all of the standard safety features provided by
the manufacturer and has not been modified to exceed a speed of 20 mph, nor
otherwise modified in any way that creates a hazard; and
      (5)   The golf cart is equipped with all mechanical systems and safety
equipment required by this subchapter.
   (F)   Denial and revocation. The initial registration of a golf cart may be
denied or subsequently revoked by the Police Chief or his or her designee if it
is determined that:
      (1)   The application contains any material misrepresentation;
      (2)   Financial responsibility requirements of the state (liability
insurance) has not been met;
      (3)   The golf cart is not in compliance with the requirements set out
above;
      (4)   The golf cart has been altered or customized and no longer meets
the definition of a golf cart;
      (5)   Equipment supplied by the manufacturer, especially safety
equipment, has been removed from the golf cart or the vehicle identification or
serial number removed; or
      (6)   Other good cause shown including repeated violations of this
subchapter.
   (G)   Financial responsibility. The owner of a golf cart required to be
registered with the town for use on the public streets and highways of the town
shall maintain in full force and effect and continuously throughout any period
of registration, the financial responsibility in the minimum amounts and in the
manner defined and described in G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 9A, as amended, or any other
law of the state requiring financial responsibility for the registration and/or
operation of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   Disqualified vehicles. ATVs, four-wheel utility vehicles and other
similar utility vehicles which are not manufactured for operation on a golf
course and golf carts which have been modified so that it no longer meets the
definition of a golf cart, may not be registered as a golf cart nor shall such
vehicles be operated on the public roads, streets and highways within the town
unless such vehicles are otherwise registered with and allowed under the motor
vehicle laws of the state.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Operation of a golf cart pursuant to this subchapter must comply at all
times with this subchapter and the motor vehicle laws of the state, in addition
to the following conditions.
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside a public road or
street with a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph.
   (B)   Golf carts may cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than 35
mph. Once this segment of the road has been traversed, the golf cart is still
required to travel only on or along a roadway with a speed limit of 35 mph or
less. Golf carts must cross in a manner that is the most direct route in order
to decrease crossing distance.
   (C)   Any operator shall adhere to all state and local laws regarding the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs. No golf cart may
contain any open container of alcohol.
   (D)   Any operator shall not allow the number of people on the golf cart at
any one time to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. The
operator shall not allow passengers to ride on any part of the golf cart not
designed to carry passengers.
   (E)   No golf cart shall operate at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (F)   Golf carts must be operated on the right edge of the roadway and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (G)   No golf cart may be parked on any sidewalk.
   (H)   Hand signals for turns are required if the golf cart is being operated
without a mechanical turn signal indicator.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 DISCLAIMER AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Disclaimer. Golf carts are not designed for use, nor manufactured to
be used, on public streets and the town neither advocates nor endorses the golf
cart as a safe means of travel on public streets, roads and highways. The town
in no way shall be liable for accidents, injuries or death involving the
operation of a golf cart.
   (B)   Assumption of risk. Any person who owns, operates or rides upon a golf
cart on a public street, road or highway within the town does so at his or her
own risk and peril and assumes all liability resulting from the operation of
the golf cart.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 14-4(a), any person who violates this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500
for each violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $100. In the event there is more than one violation
within any one-year period, then the civil penalty shall be increased for each
additional violation over one during such period, as follows:
      (1)   Second offense within one year: $250;
      (2)   Third offense within one year: $500;
      (3)   Fourth offense within one year: $750; and
      (4)   Fifth and any subsequent offense within one year: $1,000.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-175(f), any one, all or any combination of
the foregoing penalties and remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   NOISE
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
98.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Administration and enforcement of provisions
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Abandoned vehicle prohibited; removal authorized
   
90.04   Nuisance vehicle prohibited; removal authorized
   
90.05   Regulations for junked motor vehicles; removal authorized
   
90.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
90.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirements
   
90.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.13   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicles
   
90.14   Exception to provisions
   
90.15   Protection against criminal or civil liability
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Police Chief and Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Chief shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways within the town
and on property owned by the town. The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority or powers of officers
of the Police Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out
their duties.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   APPROVED MOTOR VEHICLE COVER. A ready-fit cover made expressly for motor
vehicles which will resist decay, mildew and ultra-violet sunlight.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The Chief of Police or the Zoning Administrator,
respectively, are designated to authorize the removal of vehicles under the
provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self- propulsion or which are attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such parking or as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   One so situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be “abandoned”, as
the term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Zoning Administrator may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle, as defined
above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 REGULATIONS FOR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Removal required. It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or
person entitled to the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner,
lessee or occupant of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is
located to leave or allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the
vehicle has been ordered removed.
   (B)   Removal order. Subject to the provisions of division (A) above, upon
investigation, the Zoning Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle, as defined in this chapter, after finding in writing that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (C)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of division (C)(2) below, any junked
motor vehicle must be kept in a garage or similar structure that provides a
complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a
public street or abutting property. Garages or similar structures mean either a
lawful, non-conforming use or a structure erected pursuant to the lawful
issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in accordance with
all zoning and Building Code regulations.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1) above, one junked motor vehicle in
its entirety can be located in the rear yard, as defined by
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, if the junked motor vehicle is entirely
concealed from public view by an approved motor vehicle cover. The motor
vehicle cover must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to
deteriorate.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.07 of this chapter, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered
owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee
or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written
record to show the name(s) and  addressee(s)  to which mailed, and the date
mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to
be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on
the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is
moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle,
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or, in the case of a junked motor vehicle, that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Town Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Town Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing entrances or exits to
businesses and residences; vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard; and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Prior Code, § 90.07)
§ 90.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   (1)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours.
      (2)   If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Prior Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.09 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 90.09)
§ 90.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.10)
§ 90.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. §§ 44A-1 through 44A-6.
(Prior Code, § 90.11)
§ 90.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Zoning Administrator. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Prior Code, § 90.12)
§ 90.13 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 90.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.14 EXCEPTION TO PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which meets the following
conditions:
   (A)   The vehicle is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or
junkyard, as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control
Act, G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   The vehicle is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   The vehicle is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated
in a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of
the enterprise; and
   (D)   The vehicle is in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.14)
§ 90.15 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.15)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dangerous dogs; nuisance dogs
   
91.03   Limitation on number of dogs allowed
   
91.04   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
91.05   Female dogs in heat
   
91.06   Rabies
   
91.07   Impoundment
   
91.08   Bird sanctuary
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person designated by the county and have full
authority to exercise duties within the town’s corporate limits. The Police
Chief may appoint additional persons to assist the Animal Control Officer.
   AT LARGE. An animal that is not on its owner’s premises nor under the
control of the owner or other person accompanying the dog by means of a leash
not exceeding six feet in length or within a private vehicle.
   DOG. Any dog, male or female, over the age of three months.
   DOG HAVING DANGEROUS OR DESTRUCTIVE PROPENSITIES. A dog which constitutes a
physical threat to humans or other animals, or a dog which habitually turns
over garbage receptacles, habitually destroys shrubs, flowers, grass and other
plant growth, habitually kills other animals, habitually attacks or attempts to
attack persons or habitually performs other similar acts.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog and, for the purpose
hereof, the head of a household shall be deemed to be the OWNER in respect to
any dog owned, kept or harbored by any person residing in such household and
kept on the premises.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. A building or other structure from which a dog cannot
escape, or an outside area enclosed by a fence or other device so that a dog
cannot escape from the property of owners.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog which has bitten one or more persons, or one in which a
propensity to attack human beings exists, and such propensity is known or ought
to be reasonably known to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.02 DANGEROUS DOGS; NUISANCE DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   The keeping or maintenance outside a proper enclosure of any
vicious dog or dog having dangerous or destructive propensities is declared to
be a public nuisance, and shall be abated as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   The keeping or maintenance of any dog which by prolonged and
habitual barking, howling or whining causes serious annoyance to neighboring
residents and interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of the public
streets, sidewalks or other public areas, is declared to be a public nuisance
and shall be abated as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep on his or her lot or
premises any dog or puppy, the keeping of which results in such unsanitary
conditions, odors or insect proliferation or which such dog or puppy barks,
cries, howls, yaps, fights or makes such other noises, as to disturb the peace
and quiet of the neighborhood or general public and results in a neighborhood
or public nuisance and to fail to abate the same upon warning from the Police
Chief.
   (B)   (1)   Complaint and notice. On receipt of a written detailed and
signed complaint being made to the town by any resident that any person is
maintaining a public nuisance as described in division (A) above, the Police
Chief shall cause the owner or keeper of the dog in question to be notified
that a complaint has been received, and shall cause the situation complained of
to be investigated and a report and findings written.
      (2)   Abatement. If the written findings of the investigation indicate
that the complaint is justified, then the Police Chief shall cause the owner or
keeper of the dog in question to be so notified in writing, and ordered to
abate the nuisance within 48 hours by destruction or removal of the dog or by
construction of a proper enclosure, as the case may necessitate.
      (3)   Impoundment on failure to abate; destruction. If any person being
the owner or keeper of a dog hereinabove described shall fail or refuse to
abate the nuisance on order of the town within the specified time, the Police
Chief shall cause the dog in question to be apprehended and impounded in a
suitable place, such as the county’s Humane Society Shelter, and held,
redeemed, sold or destroyed in accordance with the rules established by the
county’s Humane Society Shelter ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep more than four dogs within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow any dog of his or hers to run at
large within the town. At no time will a dog or puppy be tied, penned,
confined, nor will a dog house or dog pen be placed in the side area located
between residences. Dog houses and dog pens shall be considered as an accessory
building and the placement of such must conform with the town’s regulations.
The placement of a dog house or dog pen shall be limited to solely the rear
yard and must meet the setback requirements for accessory buildings as
delineated in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances. Dog pens and dog houses will be a minimum
of 35 feet from neighbors’ residential dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any female dog which is in estrus to
keep the same within the town during that period, except when confined to the
premises of the owner, or of another person with such person’s consent. Any
person breeding a female dog more than once a year for the purpose of selling
the resulting litter will be considered as operating a business and will be
subject to the regulatory provisions of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances. In addition, for those individuals
possessing four female dogs, it shall be permissible to breed only one female
during any 12-month period.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 RABIES.
   Whenever any dog is suspected, or has shown any symptoms, of having rabies,
or has been bitten by any dog or other animal showing such symptoms, or has
bitten any persons, the owner of the dog shall immediately confine the dog to
his or her premises in such a manner that it could not bite any other animal or
person, and immediately notify the Police Chief of the circumstances and
action, and shall keep such dog confined in a manner, in such place and for
such time and treatment as the Police Chief or his or her designee may direct.
If the Police Chief or his or her designee deems it necessary or expedient, or
the owner so desires, a licensed veterinarian may be called in, at the owner’s
expense, for the purpose of diagnosis and treatment and, in such case, such
veterinarian is satisfied that such dog has rabies, the Police Chief shall
cause the dog to be humanely euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
§ 91.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever any dog is found running at large in violation of this chapter, it
may be impounded in the county’s Humane Society or similar shelter and held,
redeemed, sold or destroyed in accordance with the rules established by that
county.
(Prior Code, § 91.07)
§ 91.08 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and all
lands owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits are hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or otherwise kill, within
the sanctuary established by division (A) above, any domestic or wild bird;
provided that, in accordance with G.S. § 160A-188, it shall be lawful to trap,
hunt, shoot or otherwise kill starlings, English sparrows, blackbirds (except
red-winged blackbirds) and other birds having an “unprotected” status under the
law.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of bird sanctuaries authorized, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal misdemeanor. Notwithstanding any civil penalties outlined
herein, any person violating any provision of this chapter may be found guilty
of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. This chapter may be enforced by an appropriate
equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Civil penalties. In addition to the other remedies for violation of
this chapter, the Police Chief or any person authorized by him or her may issue
to the known owner or person having custody or control of an animal, a ticket
giving notice of the violation of this chapter. Any such official shall be
authorized to secure the name and address of the owner or person in control of
the animal in violation. Tickets so issued may be delivered in person or mailed
by registered or certified mail to the person charged if the person cannot
otherwise be readily located. Any such ticket issued shall impose upon the
owner a civil penalty of $50 for the first offense and $200 for all subsequent
offenses. These penalties must be paid within 20 days to the town.
   (D)   General violation. See §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for any and all penalties.
   (E)   Appeal. Appeal must be made to the Town Manager or his or her designee
within ten days.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Dead wires
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to fire protection generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-435 to
160A-438
§ 92.01 DEAD WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dead or unused wires to hang or remain on
any pole, tree or house where the same have been formerly connected and in use,
but all such wires shall be taken down and removed immediately upon notice by
the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: NOISE
Section
   
93.01   Loud and disturbing noises prohibited
   
93.02   Noises expressly prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate, restrict or prohibit loud noises, see G.S. §
160A-184
§ 93.01 LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make, create,
assist in creating, permit, continue or cause to be made or continued any
unnecessary, excessive, unreasonable or unusually loud noise or any noise which
annoys, disturbs, frightens, injures or endangers citizens within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. passed 8-10-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, unnecessary
and disturbing noises in violation of this chapter, but such enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a
danger signal, so as to create any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or the
sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time, or
the use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police, fire or other
emergency vehicles or equipment;
      (2)   Radios, CD players and the like. The using, operating or playing,
or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any television set, radio
receiving set, musical instrument, CD player or sound-amplifying device or
other machine or device for the producing or reproducing the sound in such a
manner or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the peace, quiet, comfort or
repose of the neighboring inhabitants or of any person in any dwelling, motel,
hotel or other type of residence. The operation of any such machine or device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in
which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section except as provided in division (N) below;
      (3)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers and the like used for advertising. The
using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, CD player loudspeaker, sound amplifier or
other machine or device for the producing or reproducing oi sound which is cast
upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting
the attention of the public to any building or structure;
      (4)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of
9:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or any place in such manner as to annoy
or disturb the peace, quiet, comfort or repose of the neighboring inhabitants
or of any persons in any office, or in any dwelling, motel, hotel or other type
of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity;
      (5)   Animals, birds and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird
which, by causing frequent or long continued noise, disturbs the comfort and
repose of any person in the vicinity;
      (6)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (7)   Loading or unloading or opening boxes and the like. The creation of
a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle
or the opening and destruction of bales, crates and containers;
      (8)   Noises near schools and churches. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning or church
while the same is in use, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of
such institution or which disturbs or unduly annoys; provided that, conspicuous
signs are displayed indicating that the same are schools or churches;
      (9)   Hawkers and peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers
and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood;
      (10)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation
of noise to any performance, show, sale or place of business;
      (11)   Raucous parties. Any party or assembly of persons in residential
units or commercial establishment producing loud and raucous noise after 9:30
p.m. that tends to disturb the comfort, quiet or repose of persons in
residential units or on other residential premises. The person in possession of
the premises where such a party or assembly of persons takes place shall be
deemed responsible for the emission of loud and raucous noises under this
division (A)(11);
      (12)   Construction noise. Including, but not limited to, hammering,
power saws, heavy equipment, delivery trucks, other construction vehicles or
equipment associated with a construction site before 7:00 a.m. or after 8:00
p.m.; provided, however, that, in his or her discretion and based upon the
location and degree of noise, the Town Manager may grant a special permit for
work to be performed on a commercial establishment between 8:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.; and
      (13)   Firing or discharging of guns, crackers and the like. The firing
of guns, squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other combustible substance in the
streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making noise or disturbance.
   (B)   A special permit may be issued by the town. This permit will only be
for the hours between 9:30 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on Friday and/or Saturday night.
The permit will be limited to a maximum of two days and limited to the C-1 and
C-1P Zoning Districts. Individual businesses or organizations will be allowed
to secure no more than eight permits for each business organizations in a
calendar year. Cost of the permit will be as established by the town’s Fee
Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. passed 8-10-1998; Ord. passed 12-11-2000; Ord.
passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, violations of this chapter may be enforced as
a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definition
   
94.03   General duty of owners and occupants
   
94.04   Existence of certain conditions constitutes nuisance
Control of Solid Waste
   
94.15   Accumulation of solid wastes
   
94.16   Property owners to provide adequate receptacles
   
94.17   Prompt removal of foul garbage
   
94.18   Exposed refuse
   
94.19   Use of public waste baskets
   
94.20   Transportation of solid waste within town
   
94.21   Burning or burying solid wastes or refuse
Control of Various Specific Nuisance Conditions
   
94.35   Stagnant water
   
94.36   Construction sites to be neat and orderly
   
94.37   Maintenance of vacant property
   
94.38   Grass clippings, gravel and sedimentation declared a public nuisance
Enforcement
   
94.50   Investigation
   
94.51   Order of abatement
   
94.52   Appeal
   
94.53   Removal of nuisance
   
94.54   Town to remove nuisance
   
94.55   Cost of removal charged to owner; liens
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances; authority to regulate, see G.S. § 160A-193
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   The town is a residential and resort community dependent on the tourist
industry. It is the intention of the Town Council to preserve the natural
beauty of the town, free from litter, waste, noxious growth and other nuisances
so as to protect property values and promote the tourist industry. The Town
Council is authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-174, 160A-175, 160A-192 and 160A-193 to
abate nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 94.01)
§ 94.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLID WASTES. Shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Garbage. All solid wastes capable of being rapidly decomposed by
microorganisms, including but not limited to, animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, as
well as animal offal and carcasses, but excluding sewage and human wastes;
      (2)   Pieces or fragments of metal, wood, glass, masonry, plastic,
textiles, rope, leather, rubber, paper or any other substance that formerly
were part of the construction of some useful object or thing that consisted of
the excess resulting from the creation of some useful object or thing,
excluding wood used for fireplace and stoves which shall be neatly stored;
      (3)   Objects or things, including, but not limited to, vehicles,
machines, tools, equipment, hardware, furniture, appliances, etcetera or parts
of the same that are no longer in serviceable condition or are valuable only as
raw material for reprocessing, or unsolicited newspapers, flyers, ads;
      (4)   Brush. Any cut weeds, grass, bushes, trees, stumps, branches or
other plant materials; and
      (5)   All other unwanted or discarded materials resulting from domestic,
industrial, commercial or community activities.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997)
§ 94.03 GENERAL DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every person owning or occupying any premises in the town shall keep
the premises free from noxious weeds, trash and all other forms of animal or
vegetable refuse which may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health, or
which may constitute a public nuisance. No owner or occupant of any premises
shall bury therein any animal or vegetable matter which, upon decaying, may
become dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   If any person shall violate any provision of division (A) above, the
Town Manager or his or her designee may give notice to the owner or person in
possession of such premises that within five days or sooner from the date of
such notice, all weeds, trash and other offensive animal or vegetable matter be
removed from such premises. Should any owner or occupant fail to comply with
such notice, the Town Manager shall proceed to have the offending materials
removed, and such owner or occupant shall be responsible to the town for the
cost thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 EXISTENCE OF CERTAIN CONDITIONS CONSTITUTES NUISANCE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits of the town is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance:
   (A)   Any accumulation of solid waste causing or threatening to cause a fire
hazard; causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of stagnant water;
causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (B)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the county’s Health Department;
   (C)   Any burned out or condemned structure;
   (D)   Any incomplete structure (exterior only) on which no work has been
done for a period of 12 months or whenever zoning permit expires, whichever is
less;
   (E)   Any other condition specifically declared to be a danger to the public
health, safety and general welfare of inhabitants of the town and a public
nuisance by the Town Council;
(Prior Code, § 94.04)
   (F)   Rotten, damaged, dilapidated sheds, outbuildings, portable canopies,
garages or other uninhabited structures which have collapsed or partially
collapsed or pose a fire danger or risk to neighborhood children, adjacent
property and adjacent property owners shall be deemed a nuisance;
   (G)   A collection of lumber, brick, blocks, nails and other building
materials and building rubbish shall not remain outdoors on a property, in
public view, for a period of greater than 30 days;
   (H)   The use of portable screening devices such as tarp, fabric, canvas,
nylon, vinyl, plastic or other non-rigid material to cover or hide the above
mentioned collection shall be deemed a nuisance;
   (I)   Barns, animal pens and enclosures, dog lots and runs, and other places
that house animals which are not kept in a sanitary condition or that emit
odors shall be deemed a nuisance; and
   (J)   The emission of pesticides, herbicides and other chemical agents in
the downtown shall be limited to household grade and shall not have emission
travel beyond the property owners setback. Airborne chemicals shall not be used
in a property owner setback. Emission of odorous air shall be considerate a
nuisance.
(Ord. passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
CONTROL OF SOLID WASTE
§ 94.15 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby declares that the uncontrolled accumulation of
solid waste on any premises constitutes a danger to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town, in that such accumulations can furnish
shelter and breeding places for vermin, present physical dangers to the safety
and well-being of children and other citizens, pose a danger of fire and
depreciate property value, or cause a loss of business by detracting from the
appearance and character of residential and commercial neighborhoods.
   (B)   No person may cause, suffer or permit solid wastes to accumulate or
remain on premises under his or her control, except in accordance with the
provisions of §§
94.16 and
94.17 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.15) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 PROPERTY OWNERS TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   General. The owner of every premises shall be responsible for
providing adequate solid waste receptacles in accordance with this section to
store the solid wastes generated by activities taking place on those premises
between scheduled pickups.
   (B)   Residential storage and receptacles. All residential dwelling units
shall store solid waste in enclosed metal or plastic containers which will
prevent infestation of animals and insects.
   (C)   Commercial storage and receptacles. All commercial uses shall store
solid waste in enclosed metal or plastic containers which will prevent
infestation of animals and insects. When required by the town, or other local
or state law, solid waste shall be stored in metal boxes of adequate size and
design. Where, and to the extent feasible, exterior storage of solid waste
shall be shielded from view from adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 94.16)
§ 94.17 PROMPT REMOVAL OF FOUL GARBAGE.
   No garbage that has become decayed or that shall otherwise be a menace to
health or cleanliness shall be allowed to remain in any dwelling house, hotel,
boarding house, café, restaurant, lunch stand, fruit stand, meat market, store
or other building, or on any premises for a longer time than shall be
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit it in a proper receptacle as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.17) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 EXPOSED REFUSE.
   No person shall deposit or leave exposed on any street or public place or
upon any premises, whether or not owned or occupied by him or her, any animal
or fowl carcass or part thereof or any decaying flesh or vegetable matter or
any other kind of garbage or refuse or offensive matter calculated to create a
public nuisance or endanger public health; and any violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance which, if not abated forthwith by the person
responsible, shall be abated by the town at the expense of such responsible
person or the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such nuisance
exists.
(Prior Code, § 94.18) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 USE OF PUBLIC WASTE BASKETS.
   No person employed in any place of business and no occupant of any premises
shall use the public waste baskets or cans for disposal of his or her trash or
garbage, in order that such public waste cans may be used for the disposal of
litter by pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 94.19) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE WITHIN TOWN.
   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid wastes on the
public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are so secured that no solid
wastes escape from the transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so
transported shall be carried in closed containers that prevent the escape of
noxious odors or liquids.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 BURNING OR BURYING SOLID WASTES OR REFUSE.
   (A)   No person may burn or cause to be burned any solid waste for purposes
of disposal, and no person may burn or cause to be burned any other solid
waste.
   (B)   No person may bury or cause to be buried any solid waste for purposes
of disposal.
   (C)   It shall constitute a nuisance for any person to burn garbage, market
waste, manure or other offensive refuse in the open air or in any furnace or
stove within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) Penalty, see §
94.99
CONTROL OF VARIOUS SPECIFIC NUISANCE CONDITIONS
§ 94.35 STAGNANT WATER.
   Stagnant water in cellars and other places shall constitute a nuisance and
shall be removed on notice from the Town Manager or his or her designee to the
person so offending.
(Prior Code, § 94.37) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 CONSTRUCTION SITES TO BE NEAT AND ORDERLY.
   The contractor shall remove all trash and discarded materials from the
building site at least once per week so as to maintain a reasonably clean area.
All trash, construction litter and discarded building materials shall be
removed from the building site and surrounding area before the structure is
occupied.
(Prior Code, § 94.38) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 MAINTENANCE OF VACANT PROPERTY.
   Every owner or person in possession of property which is not used for
agricultural purposes within the corporate limits of the town shall control all
noxious growth and have weeds, grass or other noxious growth mowed or cut to
within four inches of the ground at least four times each year. The first
cutting shall occur no later than May 30, the second cutting no later than June
30, the third cutting no later than July 30 and the fourth cutting no later
than August 30 of each and every year. Any property or portion of a property
used for agriculture purposes is exempt from this section. If noxious growth is
not controlled or weeds and grass are not cut in compliance with this section,
the Town Manager or his or her designee shall give notice to the owner or
person in possession of such property that, within five days from the date of
such notice, all weeds, grass or other noxious growth be cut from such
property. Should any owner or occupant fail to comply with such notice, the
Town Manager or his or her designee shall proceed to have such weeds or other
noxious growth cut, and the owner or person in possession of such lot shall be
responsible to the town for the cost thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.39) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997; Ord. passed 7-11-2011) Penalty,
see §
94.99
§ 94.38 GRASS CLIPPINGS, GRAVEL AND SEDIMENTATION DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No person or property owner shall allow any grass clippings, gravel or
sedimentation to be washed or blown onto a public street or sidewalk, nor shall
any such debris be allowed to remain on any public street or sidewalk.
Penalty, see §
94.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.50 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall have the responsibility
for enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Manager or his or her designee, upon notice from any person
of the possible existence of any of the conditions of this chapter, shall cause
to be made such investigations as may be necessary to determine whether
conditions exist which may constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.50) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997)
§ 94.51 ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a violation of
this chapter exist, the Town Manager or his or her designee shall notify, in
writing, the owner of the premises in question of the conditions constituting
such violation and shall order the prompt abatement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.51) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997; Ord. passed 9-8-2003)
§ 94.52 APPEAL.
   Any decision of the Town Manager or his or her designee may be appealed to
the Town Council. Such appeal must be submitted in writing within ten days
after receipt of the notice of violation. The filing of an appeal stays all
enforcement proceedings until such time as the Town Council makes a final
decision.
(Prior Code, § 94.52) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997)
§ 94.53 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a violation fails, neglects
or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance within
ten days from receipt of said order, shall be subject to a civil penalty in the
amount of $100. Notice shall be given by certified mail sent to the last know
address of the violator. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall be
considered to be a separate violation. The town may recover against the
offender in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender has not paid
the penalty within 30 days of the time after the time he or she has been cited
for violation of the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 94.53) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997; Ord. passed 9-8-2003)
§ 94.54 TOWN TO REMOVE NUISANCE.
   If the violation is not corrected within 30 days after the first notice of
the violation has been received by the owner, the Town Manager or his or her
designee shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by
having employees or contractors of the town to go upon the premises and remove
or otherwise abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 94.54) (Ord. passed 9-8-2003)
§ 94.55 COST OF REMOVAL CHARGED TO OWNER; LIENS.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel of
land.
   (B)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in division (A) above, such charges shall become a lien upon the land or
premises where the nuisance existed.
(Prior Code, § 94.55)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 94.50)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Obstructions
   
95.02   Playing on streets, sidewalks and public areas
   
95.03   Barricades
Excavations and Construction
   
95.15   Permit to dig in streets and sidewalks
   
95.16   Back filling of openings
   
95.17   Protection of excavations
   
95.18   Overhead passageway required for construction near sidewalk
Connecting Driveways to, Accepting and Maintaining Town Streets
   
95.30   Definitions
   
95.31   Permit required for connecting private property to town streets
   
95.32   Culverts, bridges or pipes
   
95.33   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Public Works, see Title V
   Zoning, see
Ch. 152
Statutory reference:
   Control by town of streets and sidewalks generally, see G.S. § 160A-296
   Willful and wanton injury to real property, see G.S. § 14-127
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to place any obstruction whatsoever, in or over any of
the streets or sidewalks, and it shall be unlawful to obstruct any sidewalk or
street with any wheelbarrow, automobile, truck or other vehicle, railroad car,
chair, bench, chicken coop, box or other articles; provided that, a margin not
exceeding two and one-half feet in width on the inside of the sidewalk in the
business blocks shall be allowed for the exhibition of merchandise by abutting
merchants; provided, further, that, this section shall not apply to baby
carriages and invalid chairs rolled on the sidewalks in such manner as not to
obstruct the same.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 PLAYING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall play baseball, town ball, football or other games of
similar nature on any public street.
   (B)   No person shall play at any game upon any street or use any street for
the purpose of recreation, except upon a play street designated as such by
authority of the Town Council.
   (C)   No person shall engage in any game or recreational activity upon any
sidewalk or public place in the town in any manner so as to:
      (1)   Impede pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   Endanger property;
      (3)   Endanger the life, limb or health of any person;
      (4)   Prevent the full and complete use of such sidewalk or public place
by other persons for the intended purpose thereof;
      (5)   Constitute a breach of the peace; and/or
      (6)   Constitute unreasonable annoyance to persons of ordinary
susceptibilities.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 BARRICADES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle or animal past, around or over, any
barricade lawfully placed upon any street by town officials or employees, which
street has been closed by such barricade, except by consent of persons
authorized to give such consent.
(Prior Code, § 95.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 95.15 PERMIT TO DIG IN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig any hole, ditch or excavation of
any kind whatsoever on any street in the town, without first securing a permit
therefor, in writing, from the Town Manager or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.16 BACK FILLING OF OPENINGS.
   (A)   All openings made in any street or sidewalk under the provisions of
this subchapter shall immediately, upon completion of the work, be filled in
and the surface thereof made flush with the adjacent surface.
   (B)   Any hard surface, macadam or asphalt removed shall be replaced by the
town at the expense of the applicant granted permission to open such street or
sidewalk.
   (C)   Prior to making any open cut of town roads or streets, the contractor
shall have all underground utilities located and obtain written approval from
the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Any utilities installed under a town street shall be placed within a
carrier pipe with the trench being no less than 18 inches deep. After place of
the carrier pipe, the area around the pipe shall be backfilled to a depth of
six inches above the crown of the pipe. This backfill shall be compacted to 95%
of modified proctor. The remainder of the trench shall be backfilled and
compacted in eight-inch lifts to 95% modified Proctor. The top eight inches
shall be asphalt binder course Type H or HB and the surface shall be two inches
of asphalt, Type I-1 or I-2.
   (E)   Any utilities installed under a town sidewalk shall be placed in a
carrier pipe and backfilled in accordance with division (D) above, and the
surface replaced to match the pre-existing surface.
(Prior Code, § 95.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.17 PROTECTION OF EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person making any excavation, for any purpose
whatsoever, in any of the streets or sidewalks to fail to securely cover such
excavations with plank or place ropes around the same three feet from the
ground, or to fail to place a sufficient number of red lights or blinking
yellow lights around such excavation before dark and to keep such lights
burning all night, every night such excavation shall be open.
(Prior Code, § 95.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.18 OVERHEAD PASSAGEWAY REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, an overhead covered passageway shall be constructed,
so as to leave the sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, § 95.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONNECTING DRIVEWAYS TO, ACCEPTING AND MAINTAINING TOWN STREETS
§ 95.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY. Any private road, path or access constructed by a private party
and connecting to any street. DRIVEWAYS will not be maintained by the town.
   PRIVATE STREET. Any street not dedicated to the town and not maintained by
the state’s Department of Transportation. PRIVATE STREETS will not be
maintained by the town.
   STREET. Any public right-of-way for vehicular traffic. The term STREET shall
also encompass ROAD.
   TOWN STREET. A street dedicated to and accepted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 95.35) (Ord. passed 5-11-1998; Ord. passed 10-12-1998)
§ 95.31 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTING PRIVATE PROPERTY TO TOWN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any driveway from
private property to a town street, without first obtaining a permit to do so
from the town’s Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The town’s Zoning Administrator shall not issue any permit required by
this chapter until he or she has first inspected the site and determined that
such construction will not change the drainage of the town street so as to
adversely affect the town street or adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 95.36)
   (C)   All requests for driveway permits shall comply with the state’s
Department of Transportation sight triangle and safety requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1998; Ord. passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Driveway connections to streets; authority to regulate, see G.S. § 160A-307
§ 95.32 CULVERTS, BRIDGES OR PIPES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any culvert, bridge or
pipe over or across any ditch or drainage facility of any street, without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 95.37)
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to keep and
maintain his or her culvert in good and proper working order at all times.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1998; Ord. passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.33 VIOLATIONS.
   Any driveway, culvert, bridge or other installation for which a permit is
required by subchapter and which is installed or constructed without such
permit having been obtained, or is not properly maintained, is hereby declared
to be a nuisance, to be abated in the manner prescribed by
Ch. 94 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 95.38) (Ord. passed 5-11-1998; Ord. passed 10-12-1998) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Rules and regulations governing the use of town parks
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE USE OF TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   TOWN PARK, includes not only the land itself, but recreational
facilities and equipment, playgrounds, athletic facilities and equipment,
spectator areas, greenways and walking trails, bodies of water used for
sporting events, recreational activities, fitness or athletic training areas,
picnic areas, shelters and parking areas, signage and all other areas, natural
features, facilities and improvements associated with the park.
   (B)   The following acts are prohibited in all town parks:
      (1)   Marking, defacing, disfiguring, injuring, tampering with,
displacing or removing any structure, equipment or facilities;
      (2)   Damaging, cutting or removing any tree, plant or flower;
      (3)   Depositing any trash or litter, except in receptacles placed for
that purpose;
      (4)   Driving any motorized vehicle, except for motorized wheelchairs,
except in areas paved for that purpose or parking areas designated for that
purpose;
      (5)   Consuming or possessing alcoholic beverages, unless a special event
permit has been issued;
      (6)   Entering, using or remaining within a park before 6:00 a.m. and
remaining in a park after 10:00 p.m.;
      (7)   Entering, using or remaining within a park when it has been closed
and a sign or other means of notice to that effect is posted;
      (8)   Disturbing or unreasonably interfering with another person who is
using the park;
      (9)   Possessing or using fireworks or any other types of explosive
device;
      (10)   Camping, except in areas specifically designated for that purpose;
      (11)   Dogs at large. Dogs must be under the control of their owners or
other person accompanying the dog by means of a leash not exceeding six feet in
length;
      (12)   Litter left by animals must be removed by the animal’s owner or
other person accompanying the dog;
      (13)   Pets are prohibited in playground areas;
      (14)   Operating a bicycle or other wheeled device and failing to yield
to pedestrians;
      (15)   Riding a skateboard; and
      (16)   Smoking, except in areas specifically designated for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. passed 8-8-2016) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the rules and regulations adopted in §
96.01 of this chapter shall constitute an infraction and unless another penalty
is specifically provided for within the code of ordinances or under state law,
in which case that penalty shall apply, shall subject the responsible person or
owner to a penalty of $50. Violators shall be issued written notice of the
violation, which must be paid within ten days after the receipt of the notice.
If the violator does not pay the penalty within ten days, the town may recover
the penalty and all subsequently accruing penalties, in a civil action. In the
event that it is necessary for the town to institute a civil action to collect
the penalty, the violator shall be responsible for all court costs and
attorney’s fees incurred by the town.
   (B)   In addition to the aforesaid penalty, a duly authorized law
enforcement officer or other authorized agent of the town may require that any
person violating these rules immediately leave the town’s park and, if the
person has engaged in repeated violations within a 12-month period, may bar the
person from the use of the town park for a period of 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. passed 8-8-2016)
CHAPTER 97: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Alarm permit
   
97.03   Duties of the alarm user
   
97.04   Duties of the alarm company
   
97.05   Request and authorization
   
97.06   Prohibited acts
   
97.07   Enforcement of provisions
   
97.08   Appeals
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM COMPANY. A person engaged in selling, leasing, installing, servicing
or monitoring alarm systems in the town; this person shall be in compliance
with and licensed by the state’s Alarm Licensing Board.
   ALARM PERMIT. A permit issued by the town allowing the operation of an alarm
system within the town.
   ALARM SIGNAL. A detectable signal, audible or visual, generated by an alarm
system, to which law enforcement is expected to respond.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any single device or assembly of equipment designed to signal
the occurrence of an illegal or unauthorized entry or other activity requiring
immediate attention and to which law enforcement is expected to respond, but
does not include alarms installed in motor vehicles, fire alarms, domestic
violence alarms or alarms designed to elicit a medical response.
   ALARM USER. Any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship,
governmental or educational entity, or any other entity owning or leasing an
alarm system, or on whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the
protection of such premises.
   AUTOMATIC DIAL PROTECTION DEVICE. An automatic dialing device or an
automatic telephone dialing alarm system, and shall include any system which
upon being activated, automatically initiates to the town’s Elk Police
Department a recorded message or code signal indicating a need for law
enforcement response.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or
electronic failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the
alarm user, his or her employees, or agents and signals activated to summon law
enforcement personnel unless the alarm user or his or her agent canceled law
enforcement response before law enforcement personnel arrive at the alarm
location. An alarm is false within the meaning of this chapter when, upon
inspection by the town’s Police Department, evidence indicates that no
unauthorized entry, robbery or other such crime was committed or attempted in
or on the premises that would have activated a properly functioning alarm
system. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a FALSE ALARM shall not include an alarm
that can reasonably be determined to have been caused or activated by unusually
violent conditions of nature nor does it include other extraordinary
circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the alarm user. In addition,
an alarm activated during an alarm system testing procedure shall not be
considered a FALSE ALARM if the alarm user first notifies and receives
permission from the user’s alarm company or designee to test the system.
   LOCAL ALARM. An alarm system that emits a signal ai an alarm site that is
audible or visible from the exterior of a structure and is not monitored by a
remote monitoring facility.
   RUNAWAY ALARM. An alarm system that produces repeated alarm signals that do
not appear to be caused by separate human action.
   SIA CONTROL PANEL STANDARD CP-01. The American National Standard Institute
(ANSI) approved Security Industry Association (SLA) CP-01 Control Panel
Standard, or nationally recognized equivalent which meets or exceeds these
standards. As may be updated from time to time, that details recommended design
features for security system control panels and their associated arming and
disarming devices to reduce false alarms. Control panels built and tested to
this standard by Underwriters Laboratory (UL), or other nationally recognized
testing organizations, will be marked to stale: “Design evaluated in accordance
with SIA CP-01 Control Panel Standard Features for False Alarm Reduction”.
   TOWN. The Town of Banner Elk or its agent.
   VERIFY. An attempt by the monitoring company or its representative, to
contact the alarm site and/or alarm user by telephone and/or other electronic
means, whether or not actual contact with a person is made, to attempt to
determine whether an alarm signal is valid before requesting law enforcement
dispatch, in an attempt to avoid an unnecessary alarm dispatch request. For the
purpose of this chapter, telephone verification shall require, as a minimum,
that a second call be made to a different number if the first attempt fails to
reach an alarm user who can properly identify themselves to attempt to
determine whether an alarm signal is valid before requesting law enforcement
dispatch.
(Prior Code, § 97.01)
§ 97.02 ALARM PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall use an alarm system without first obtaining a
permit for such alarm system from the town.
      (2)   Each alarm permit shall be assigned a unique permit number.
   (B)   Application. The permit shall be requested on an application form
provided by the town. An alarm user has the duty to obtain an application from
the town. In applying for and obtaining an alarm permit, the permit user
certifies that such permit constitutes a request and authorization to the alarm
company that such alarm company provide the services set forth in §
97.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   Transfer of possession. When the possession of the premises at which
an alarm system is maintained is transferred, the person obtaining possession
of the property shall file an application for an alarm permit within 30 days of
obtaining possession of the property. Alarm permits are not transferable.
   (D)   Multiple alarm systems. If an alarm user has one or more alarm systems
protecting two or more separate structures having different addresses, a
separate permit shall be required for each structure.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 DUTIES OF THE ALARM USER.
   An alarm user shall:
   (A)   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
reduce or eliminate false alarms;
   (B)   Take appropriate action to respond or cause a representative to
respond to the alarm system’s location within 30 minutes, when notified by the
town’s Police Department to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system, to
provide right of entry to the premises or to provide alternative security for
the premises;
   (C)   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an occurrence
of an event that the alarm system was intended to report or to perform routine
maintenance as prescribed by alarm system provider; and
   (D)   Obtain a new permit if there is a change in address or ownership of a
business, institution or residence.
(Prior Code, § 97.03) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 DUTIES OF THE ALARM COMPANY.
   An alarm company operating within the town shall register with the town’s
Police Department or its designee and supply to the Police Department
information regarding its license.
(Prior Code, § 97.04) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 REQUEST AND AUTHORIZATION.
   By its application, for and receipt of an alarm permit, the alarm user
certifies that it has requested of and/or authorized that the alarm company:
   (A)   Ninety days after enactment of this chapter, on all new installations,
use only alarm control panel(s) which meet SIA Control Panel Standard CP-01;
   (B)   Prior to activation of the alarm system provide instructions
explaining the proper operation of the alarm system to the alarm user;
   (C)   Provide written information of how to obtain service from the alarm
company for the alarm system; and
   (D)   If performing monitoring services:
      (1)   Attempt to verify by calling the alarm site and/or alarm user by
telephone, to determine whether an alarm signal is valid before requesting
dispatch. Telephone verification shall require, as a minimum, that a second
call be made to a different number, if the first attempt fails to reach an
alarm user who can properly identify themselves to attempt to determine whether
an alarm signal is valid, except in the case of a panic or robbery-in-progress
alarm, or where an audio or visual verification has/is confirming a crime is in
progress;
      (2)   Communicate a cancellation to the law enforcement communications
center as soon as possible following a determination that response is
unnecessary;
      (3)   Communicate any available information about the location of the
alarm;
      (4)   Provide alarm user registration number; and
      (5)   Provide the permit number for the alarm system that produced the
alarm signal at the time the alarm company notifies the town’s Police
Department of an alarm signal to facilitate dispatch.
(Prior Code, § 97.05)
§ 97.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to activate an alarm system
for the purpose of summoning law enforcement when no burglary, robbery or other
crime dangerous to life or property is being committed or attempted on the
premises or otherwise to cause a false alarm.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to install, maintain or use an
audible alarm system that can sound continually for more than 15 minutes.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to install, maintain or use an
automatic dial protection device that reports, or causes to be reported, any
recorded message to the town’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 97.06) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Excessive false alarms. It is hereby found and determined that three
or more false alarms within a permit year is excessive, constitutes a public
nuisance, enforceable by an equitable action, and shall be unlawful and a
violation of this chapter. Civil penalties for false alarms within a permit
year may be assessed against an alarm user as set forth in the town’s Fee
Schedule as may be adopted or amended by the Town Council.
   (B)   Other civil penalty(ies). Violations of §§
97.02 and
97.03 of this chapter may be enforced through the assessment of civil penalty
(ies) in the amount as set forth in the town’s Fee Schedule as may be adopted
or amended by the Town Council.
   (C)   Payment of civil penalty(ies). Civil penalty(ies) shall be paid within
30 days from the date of the invoice.
   (D)   Discontinuance of law enforcement response. The failure of an alarm
user to make payment of any civil penalty(ies) assessed under this chapter
within 30 days from the date of the invoice may result in discontinuance of law
enforcement response to alarm signals that may occur at the premises described
in the alarm user’s permit until payment is received. The town’s Police
Department may, in its discretion, discontinue police responses to alarm
signals from what appears to be a runaway alarm.
   (E)   Civil non-criminal violation. A violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be a civil violation and shall not constitute a misdemeanor
or infraction, enforceable under G.S. § 14-4, which expressly shall not apply.
   (F)   Permit revocation. Failure to pay civil penalties as they become due,
excessive false alarms of more than ten within a permit year, or other
violation of this chapter may result in revocation of permit.
   (G)   Additional remedies. In addition to collecting unpaid penalties in a
civil action, the town may enforce the provisions of this chapter by applying
to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction, abatement order or
other appropriate equitable remedy.
(Prior Code, § 97.07)
§ 97.08 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals process. Assessments of civil penalty(ies) and other
enforcement decisions made under this chapter may be appealed by filing a
written notice of appeal with the town’s Police Department within ten days
after the date of notification of the assessment of civil penalty(ies) or other
enforcement decision. The failure to give notice of appeal within this time
shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest the assessment of penalty
(ies) or other enforcement decision. Appeals shall be heard by the Town Manager
or his or her designee, who shall serve as the hearing officer for purposes of
this chapter. Decisions by the Town Manager or his or her designee shall
constitute a final decision of the town upon the appeal. The Hearing Officer’s
decision is subject to review in the Superior Court by proceedings in the
nature of certiorari.
   (B)   Appeal standard. The Hearing Officer shall review an appeal from the
assessment of civil penalty(ies) or other enforcement decisions using a
preponderance of the evidence standard. Notwithstanding, a determination that
the preponderance of the evidence supports the assessment of civil penalty(ies)
or other enforcement decision, the Hearing Officer shall have the discretion to
dismiss or reduce civil penalty(ies) or reverse any other enforcement decision
upon the finding of compelling circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 97.08)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or whenever in this chapter the doing of any act is required or
the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this
chapter shall be a civil violation, punishable by a civil penalty not exceeding
$100. Each day that any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of the civil penalty provisions set forth in
this chapter, the violator may be subject to one, all or a combination of the
remedies legal or equitable as authorized and prescribed by G.S. § 160A-175.
   (C)   If the violator fails to pay any civil penalty within 30 days after
being notified of a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of debt. Each day that any violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies
specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.99)
CHAPTER 98: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
98.01   Consuming, serving or displaying malt beverages, spirituous liquors or
unfortified wine in public places
Cross-reference:
   Public events, parades, and street events in public places, see §§
70.35 through
70.58
§ 98.01 CONSUMING, SERVING OR DISPLAYING MALT BEVERAGES, SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS OR
UNFORTIFIED WINE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to consume intoxicating beverages (i.e., malt
beverages, spirituous liquor or mixed drink, as defined by G.S. § 18B-101) in
any public place or upon or in any public street, sidewalk, alley or parking
lot, or property owned, leased or maintained by the town or by the state and
within the town limits, or on any such place owned, leased or maintained by the
town outside the corporate limits, except as allowed by division (B) below.
   (B)   The town may issue a special event permit for the sale, consumption or
display of malt beverages and unfortified wine as follows.
      (1)   Malt beverages, defined by G.S. § 18B-101(9) and unfortified wine
as defined by G.S. § 18B-101(7) may be possessed or consumed by a person who is
not an occupant of a motor vehicle and who is of the age permitted by state
statute at special events held in designated areas; provided that, the same has
been issued a permit in accordance with this section. Neither spirituous liquor
nor mixed beverages as defined by G.S. § 18B-101(10) and 18B-101(14)
respectively shall be allowed in any public place or in any public street,
sidewalk, alley or parking lot, or property owned, leased or maintained by the
town or by the state and within the town limits or on any such place owned,
leased or maintained by the town outside the corporate limits.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a SPECIAL EVENT is an event properly
permitted by the town. The permittee shall be referred to as the “event
organizer” under this section.
      (3)   A special event permit must be submitted to the town at least 20
days of the start of the proposed event. The Town Council or its designee is
authorized to request such information from the event organizer that will allow
the town or its designee to make such determination.
      (4)   Beverages allowed pursuant to a permit issued in accordance with
this section may only be sold, consumed or displayed between the hours of 11:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m., 11:00 p.m. if an extension is allowed under
Ch. 93 of this code of ordinances, or as allowed in the permit, whichever
period of time is less.
      (5)   A fee shall be charged for each special event permit issued
pursuant to this section and shall be in the amount as set forth on the
schedule of fees adopted from time to time by the town. The schedule of fees
shall also include the costs of the town’s Police Department in providing
security to the event based upon the anticipated size of the event.
      (6)   Malt beverages or fortified wine as provided in this section can
only be possessed or consumed in such area as approved by the town or its
designee, which area is to be conspicuously marked by the event organizer. Upon
approval of the town, instead of marking such area, the event organizer can be
authorized to give such notice by written or oral notice.
      (7)   The town will be named as an additional insured and the amount of
insurance coverage required of the permittee shall in as set forth on the
schedule of fees adopted from time to time by the town.
      (8)   All event organizers shall provide to the town proof of compliance
with all otherwise applicable state laws concerning the consumption of alcohol
beverages as regulated by G.S. Ch. 18B. Copies of any necessary permits shall
be provided to the town by the event organizer.
      (9)   The event organizer shall provide signage as may be required by the
town prohibiting the possession of alcohol beyond the area approved for the
event.
      (10)   Glass containers or cans used for the consumption of beverages are
prohibited. All beverages to be consumed shall be placed in a plastic cup prior
to the consuming of such beverages.
      (11)   Any participant who consumes alcoholic beverages at such events
must be able to produce a valid driver’s license or other photo ID that
reflects the person’s age upon request.
      (12)   The Town Manager, Police Chief or their respective designees may
suspend or revoke this permit without notice if deemed appropriate for the
safety and convenience of the participants of the event or other citizens.
(Prior Code, Ch. 98)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAX
      
111.   SPECIFIC BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
112.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
114.   SOLICITATION
CHAPTER 110: PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAX
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of chapter
Tax Provisions
   
110.15   Levy of tax
   
110.16   Who must pay
   
110.17   General
   
110.18   Business licenses limited by state statutes
   
110.19   Refunds
Licenses
   
110.30   Application
   
110.31   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license
   
110.32   Unqualified applicants; right to a conference
   
110.33   Tax Collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
110.34   Revocation
   
110.35   Forms and contents of license
   
110.36   Assignments
   
110.37   Changes in the business conducted by licensee during the tax year
   
110.38   Duplicates
   
110.39   Record of conferences
   
110.40   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
Enforcement and Collection
   
110.55   Duties of person conducting business
   
110.56   Tax Collector to investigate
   
110.57   Notice of deficiency
   
110.58   Request for a conference
   
110.59   Deficiency becomes final
   
110.60   Conference held
   
110.61   Collection of deficiency
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, professions, business and
franchise taxes under this chapter.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm or other legal entity.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted for revenue purposes only. Therefore, it
should be construed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted under its
terms.
   (B)   In addition, issuance of a license pursuant to this chapter does not
excuse a licensee from compliance with any other applicable code, section or
statute. The town may only charge the maximum allowed for business licenses by
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
TAX PROVISIONS
§ 110.15 LEVY OF TAX.
   An annual business license tax is hereby levied on the business conducted
within the town as described in §
110.18 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.15)
§ 110.16 WHO MUST PAY.
   (A)   Each person who conducts a business as described in §
110.18 of this chapter within this town is subject to this chapter. A person
“conducts business” when he or she engages in one act of any business taxed
under this chapter.
   (B)   He or she conducts a business “within the town” if he or she maintains
a business location in the town; or if, either personally or through agents, he
or she:
      (1)   Solicits business within the town limits; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or delivers services within the town
limits.
(Prior Code, § 110.16)
§ 110.17 GENERAL.
   Business licenses are valid from July 1 through June 30. The tax is due July
1 of each year. However, if a person begins a business after July 1 of a year,
the tax for that year is due before the business is begun. Licenses issued
between January 1 and June 30 each year are half-price.
(Prior Code, § 110.17)
§ 110.18 BUSINESS LICENSES LIMITED BY STATE STATUTES.
   (A)   Town policy is to charge the maximum permitted by state statutes, as
shown below, or as hereinafter amended in the state statutes:
 
Category                                                  Amount G.S. Reference
Off-premises malt beverage                                $5     105-113.77
Off-premises unfortified wine, off-premises fortified     $10    105-113.77
wine, or both
On-premises unfortified wine, on-premises fortified wine, $15    105-113.77
or both
On-premises malt beverage                                 $15    105-113.77
Taxi services                                             $15    160A-304
 
   (B)   The tax stated in this section is the tax for the first license issued
to a person. The tax for each additional license of the same type issued to
that person for the same year is 110% of the base license tax, that increase to
apply progressively for each additional license.
(Prior Code, § 110.18)
§ 110.19 REFUNDS.
   If, for any reason, a licensee discontinues his or her business during the
license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Prior Code, § 110.19)
LICENSES
§ 110.30 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the Tax Collector for each license required by
this chapter no less than 30 days before the date the tax is due.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the Tax
Collector, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether he, she or it is an
individual, a partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   Where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address to which may be mailed notices and statements required
by this chapter; and
      (5)   Any other information the Tax Collector determines to be necessary
to compute the amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 110.35)
§ 110.31 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The Tax Collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his or her qualifications for a license; or
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 110.36)
§ 110.32 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
110.31 of this chapter, he or she shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and
shall not issue the license. At the applicant’s request, the Tax Collector
shall, pursuant to §
110.40 of this chapter, give him or her a written statement of the reason for
refusing the license. The applicant may, within ten days after the day on which
the notice is served, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In his or
her request, he or she shall specify why his or her application for a license
should not be refused. The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference within a
reasonable time.
   (B)   If the Tax Collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may
reapply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reasons exist for
refusing the license, the Tax Collector shall issue the license pursuant to §
110.33 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.37)
§ 110.33 TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector believes
that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
110.31 of this chapter, he or she shall determine the amount of tax due and
notify the applicant of that amount. The Tax Collector shall not issue a
license until the tax is paid.
(Prior Code, § 110.38)
§ 110.34 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Tax Collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke
it as set forth in §
110.31 of this chapter. Before the Tax Collector may revoke a license, he or
she shall give the licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation,
pursuant to §
110.40 of this chapter. The licensee may, within ten days after the day on
which the notice is served, request in writing a conference with the Tax
Collector. The request shall specify the reasons why the license should not be
revoked. The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the Tax Collector shall revoke the license.
If the licensee requests a conference, the Tax Collector may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Tax Collector revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the Tax Collector shall issue the license pursuant to §
110.35 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.40)
§ 110.35 FORMS AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where the
business is conducted, the nature of the business licensed, the period for
which the license is issued and the amount of tax paid.
(Prior Code, § 110.41)
§ 110.36 ASSIGNMENTS.
   A license may be assigned if: a business licensed under this chapter and
carried on at a fixed place is sold as a unit to any person; and the purchaser
is to carry on the same business at the same place. Such a change shall be
reported to the Tax Collector pursuant to §
110.37 of this chapter. Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is
not assignable.
(Prior Code, § 110.42)
§ 110.37 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING THE TAX YEAR.
   A licensee or his or her assignee shall report a change in the information
contained in the license application to the Tax Collector within ten days after
the change occurs. If information shown on the license itself is affected
thereby, the licensee or his or her assignee shall surrender the license to the
Tax Collector when reporting the change.
   (A)   Changes affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under §
110.31 of this chapter and the change results in the imposition of a separate
or additional tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license reflecting the
change upon payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (B)   Changes not affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons
for revoking the license under §
110.31 of this chapter, and the change does not result in an imposition of a
separate or additional tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license
reflecting the change upon payment of a fee.
   (C)   Change requiring refusal of a license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under §
110.31 of this chapter, the Tax Collector shall refuse to reissue a license and
shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the license pursuant to §
110.34 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.43)
§ 110.38 DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the Tax
Collector shall furnish a duplicate for a fee.
(Prior Code, § 110.44)
§ 110.39 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Tax Collector shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held pursuant to this chapter. The record shall contain the applicant’s or
licensee’s name, the date of the conference and a brief statement of the issues
discussed and the result reached. After three years, the Tax Collector shall
dispose of the record pursuant to G.S. § 121-5.
(Prior Code, § 110.45)
§ 110.40 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Tax Collector to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, he or she may do so in any one of
three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the address specified for that purpose in the
license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4
of the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure, being G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4.
(Prior Code, § 110.46)
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
§ 110.55 DUTIES OF PERSON CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   Duty to determine whether tax due. Each person has the duty to
determine whether the business he or she conducts is taxed under this chapter
and, if so, whether that tax has been paid for the current tax year.
   (B)   Duty to keep books. Each person who conducts a business taxed under
this chapter shall keep all records and books necessary to compute his or her
tax liability. If a person fails to keep books and records as required, the Tax
Collector shall make his or her own determination of that person’s tax
liability from the information available to him or her.
   (C)   Duty to permit inspection. Each person who conducts business in the
town shall permit the Tax Collector to inspect his or her business premises
during normal business hours to determine the nature of the business conducted
there, and to examine his or her books and records to determine the nature and
the amount of business transacted.
   (D)   Duty to post license. A licensee shall post his or her license or
licenses conspicuously in the place of business licensed. If he or she has no
regular place of business, the license must be kept where it may be inspected
at all times by the proper town officials.
(Prior Code, § 110.60)
§ 110.56 TAX COLLECTOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Tax Collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this chapter, he or she shall conduct an
investigation to determine the person’s tax liability.
(Prior Code, § 110.61)
§ 110.57 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   If the Tax Collector determines that a person has not paid the full amount
of tax due under this chapter, either for the current license year or a prior
license year, he or she shall give the person written notice of the deficiency,
pursuant to §
110.40 of this chapter. The notice of deficiency shall specify: the total
amount of tax due; the section of this chapter upon which the tax is based; the
amount of tax paid; any interest due; the balance owed; the manner and the time
period in which the person may respond to the notice of the deficiency; and the
consequences to the person if he or she fails to respond as specified.
(Prior Code, § 110.62)
§ 110.58 REQUEST FOR A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The person may, within ten days after the day on which the notice is
served, request in writing a conference. The request shall specify the person’s
objections to the notice of deficiency.
   (B)   By way of illustration, but not limitation, a person who receives a
notice of a deficiency may object on the following grounds:
      (1)   That the tax due has already been paid;
      (2)   That the Tax Collector miscalculated the amount of tax due;
      (3)   That the Tax Collector based his or her calculation on incorrect or
insufficient information concerning either the nature or the amount of business
conducted; and/or
      (4)   That the Tax Collector based his or her determination on an
erroneous interpretation of a section of this chapter that establishes a
category of business subject to a particular tax.
(Prior Code, § 110.63)
§ 110.59 DEFICIENCY BECOMES FINAL.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under §
110.58 of this chapter, the deficiency becomes final and the Tax Collector
shall proceed to collect the deficiency.
(Prior Code, § 110.64)
§ 110.60 CONFERENCE HELD.
   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the Tax Collector shall not proceed
to collect the deficiency until he or she hears the taxpayer’s objections and
determines that the deficiency should become final. The Tax Collector shall
maintain for three years a record of each conference held pursuant to §
110.58 of this chapter. The record shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the
date of the conference and a brief statement of the issues discussed and the
results of the discussion. After three years, the Tax Collector shall dispose
of the record pursuant to G.S. § 121-5.
(Prior Code, § 110.65)
§ 110.61 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   The Tax Collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
   (A)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
110.99(A) of this chapter;
   (B)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
110.99(B) of this chapter;
   (C)   The remedies of levy and sale and attachment and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; or
   (D)   The remedies of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer within the town in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 105.
(Prior Code, § 110.66)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the town without having
paid the business license tax imposed by this chapter, or without a valid
business license issued pursuant to this chapter, or without posting a license
pursuant to §
110.55 of this chapter, is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-
4. Each day that a person conducts business in violation of this chapter is a
separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to
this section does not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes
imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
division (A) above, and pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, the town may seek an
injunction against any person conducting a business in violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.99)
CHAPTER 111: SPECIFIC BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Alcoholic beverages; clothing requirements
   
111.02   Junk yards
§ 111.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CLOTHING REQUIREMENTS.
   All permittees of alcoholic beverage licenses will require all persons to
have clothing garments to cover the chest and breast portion of the body.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed 12-4-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term JUNK YARD shall
mean a place where such materials as broken down, discarded automobiles,
wagons, trucks, auto tires, machinery, stoves, sheet metal, building scraps,
empty barrels, tubs and similar materials which, when stored in the open,
become a public nuisance and health hazard, are stored, kept, bought or sold.
(Prior Code, § 111.15)
   (B)   Location restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain
or operate any junk yard within 200 feet of any public street or road within
the corporate limits; provided that, the same is not maintained or operated
within a closed building.
(Prior Code, § 111.16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Application for license
   
112.04   Application procedures
   
112.05   Prohibited acts and conduct
   
112.06   License; posting and display
   
112.07   Inspections
   
112.08   Suspension of revocation of license
   
112.09   License renewal
   
112.10   Transfer of license
   
112.11   Location restrictions
   
112.12   Non-conforming uses
   
112.13   Adult motels
   
112.14   Escort agencies
   
112.15   Nude model studios
   
112.16   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos and live performances
   
112.17   Exterior portions of sexually-oriented businesses
   
112.18   Signage
   
112.19   Hours of operation
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirements for adult establishments located within the town. Adult
establishments, because of their very nature, are recognized as having serious
objectionable operational characteristics. Studies and experiences that are
relevant to the state have shown that lower property values and increased crime
rates tend to accompany and are brought about by adult establishments. The Town
Council finds that regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these
adverse secondary effects do not contribute to the blighting of surrounding
neighborhoods and to regulate acts, omissions or conditions detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare and the peace and dignity of the town. Regulations to
achieve these purposes can be accomplished by the procedures set forth
hereinafter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose, nor effect,
for imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually-oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section or other periodicals, videotapes,
compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium); and
      (2)   Having as a preponderance (either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications, including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes,
compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that on a regular, sporadic or transient basis features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are
intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult mini motion picture theater, escort agency,
exotic car wash, exotic maid service, nude modeling studios, sexual encounter
center or any other sexually-oriented business that is similar in nature and
intent to any other adult entertainment business, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons. This shall apply
whether the entertainment is presented on a regular, sporadic or transient
basis.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub rent a room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does
not include any adult mini motion picture theater, as defined in this section.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the person is paid a salary,
wage or other compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as a
patron or customer.
   ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in floor areas
occupied by the business by more than 10% as the floor areas exist on 10-11-
1999.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person and whose advertisements, promotions or obvious intent to the public is
sexual in nature.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises as one of its primary business purposes for a fee, tip or
other consideration and whose advertisements, promotions or obvious intent to
the public is sexual in nature.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides entertainment within or at an adult
establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or entertainment and whether or
not entertainment is provided by that person as an employee or an independent
contractor.
   EROTIC. Refers to any seductive, titillating, immodest, indecent,
suggestive, passionate or similar reference, act, service or deed.
   ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business.
   EXOTIC CAR WASH. A facility that offers a car cleaning or washing service
performed by employees that are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   LICENSED DAY CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the state, whether situated
within the town or not, that provides care, training, education, custody,
treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14 years of age, where
such children are not related by blood, marriage, adoption to the owner or
operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a day, regardless of whether
or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the services it
offers.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person appears in a state of nudity or
displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
for consideration.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than fully opaque covering; or human genitals in a discernibly turgid
state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually-oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually-oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to §
112.04 of this chapter.
   SEMI-NUDE. The appearance of the female breast below a horizontal line
across the top of the areola at its highest point. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided
the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling and/or
persons of the same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity
or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      (1)   Human genitals, pubic regions;
      (2)   Buttocks;
      (3)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling of other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTATED BUSINESS. Any business or enterprises that have as one
of then-principal business purposes or as a significant portion of their
business an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing or related to
anatomical areas and sexual activities as specified in G.S. § 14-202.10. This
term may be used interchangeably with ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTATED BUSINESS.
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership of control of the business, except for the
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The code enforcement officer of the town. The ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Business license.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the town unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the town. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate such business after such license has been revoked or
suspended by the town or has expired.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service or entertainment directly related to the operation of an
unlicensed adult establishment within the town.
      (3)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the manner required by this chapter, an adult
establishment license has not obtained such a license. In addition, it shall be
prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in an adult establishment in which an adult establishment license
is not posted, in the manner required by this chapter, had knowledge that such
business was not licensed.
   (B)   Entertainer license. It is unlawful for any person to work as an
entertainer at an adult establishment without first obtaining a license to do
so from the town, or to work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after
such person’s license to do so has been revoked or suspended by the town or has
expired.
   (C)   License classification and fees.
      (1)   The term of all licenses required under this chapter shall be for a
period of 12 months, commencing on the date of issuance of the license. The
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the fees
referred to in this chapter and established by the Town Council. Payment shall
be made by certified cashier’s check or money order. No application shall be
considered complete until all such fees are paid.
      (2)   All licenses shall be issued for a specific location and/or person
and shall be non-refundable and non-transferable.
      (3)   The license fees shall be as set by the Town Council from time to
time and be recorded in the Town Council meeting minutes at which they are set
and shall appear in the town’s Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adult establishment business license.
      (1)   All persons desiring to secure a license to conduct operate or
maintain an adult establishment under the provisions of this chapter shall make
a verified application to the Zoning Administrator. All applications shall be
submitted in the name of the person proposing to conduct, operate or maintain
the adult establishment. All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied
by the Zoning Administrator and shall require the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by
which the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and
the residence address for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, Social Security number, driver’s
license number and a recent photograph of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the
adult entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the
owner of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the
business address and county parcel identification number on which the business
resides;
            2.   If the person identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of
land in division (A)(1)(b)1. above is/are not also the owner(s) of the
establishment, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract,
lease option contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable
right to owners or proposed owners of the adult establishment to have or obtain
the use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be used for
the purpose of the operation of an adult establishment;
            3.   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared
within 30 days prior to the application by a registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually-oriented
businesses within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property
lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school, library or
public park recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified.
For purpose of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted; and
            4.   Any of the criteria above shall not be required for a renewal
application if the applicant states that the documents previously furnished the
Zoning Administrator with the original application or previous renewals thereof
remain correct and current.
         (c)   The names, residence addresses for the past two years, Social
Security numbers and dates of births of all partners, if the applicant is a
partnership; and, if the applicant is a corporation, the same information for
all corporate officers, directors and individuals having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation;
         (d)   1.   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or
from each corporate officer, director or 10% shareholder that each such person
has not been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or
diverted from prosecution on:
               a.   A felony criminal act within five years immediately
preceding the application; or
               b.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application.
            2.   Where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the state or any
other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any other
state.
         (e)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of
existence issued by the state’s Secretary of State;
         (f)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter regulating adult establishments;
         (g)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by a police
officer. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
Police Department; and
         (h)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant(s) consents to
investigation of his/her background by the town to include fingerprinting and
that the applicant(s) agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her expense,
a criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five preceding years.
      (2)   Failure to provide the information and documentation required by
this division (A) shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not
be processed until complete.
   (B)   Adult entertainer license.
      (1)   All persons desiring to secure a license under the provisions of
this chapter to be an entertainer shall make a verified application to the
Zoning Administrator. All applications shall be made in person to the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee. All applications shall be submitted on a
form supplied by the Zoning Administrator and shall require the following
information:
         (a)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by
which the applicant has used at any time, and the residence addresses for the
past two years, the home telephone number, date and place of birth, Social
Security number and any stages or nicknames used in entertaining;
         (b)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the
applicant intends to work as an entertainer;
         (c)   A statement from the applicant, that the applicant has not been
convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of or diverted from
prosecution on:
            1.   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
            2.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act
involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse
of a child, pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the state
or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any
other state.
         (d)   Photographs shall be taken of the applicant by the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee and the Zoning Administrator shall have
the photographs processed and retain the copies;
         (e)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by a police
officer. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
Police Department;
         (f)   The applicant shall present to the Zoning Administrator for
copying documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 21 years at
the time the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be accepted
as documentation of age:
            1.   A motor vehicle operator’s license issued by any state,
bearing the applicant’s photograph and date of birth;
            2.   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant’s
photograph and date of birth;
            3.   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
            4.   An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
            5.   Any other form of picture identification issued by a
governmental entity that is deemed reliable by the Town Manager; or
            6.   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (g)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigations of his or her background by the town to include fingerprinting
and that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her expense,
a criminal history check from the clerk of court of any county in which the
applicant has resided during the five preceding years.
      (2)   Failure to provide the information required by this division (B)
shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not be processed until
complete.
   (C)   Application processing. Upon receipt of a complete application for an
adult establishment license or for an entertainer license, the Zoning
Administrator shall immediately commence investigation of the application as
follows:
      (1)   In case of an application for a license for an adult establishment,
the Zoning Administrator shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Town Manager, the
Zoning Board of Adjustment and to the Police Chief;
         (b)   Report to the Town Manager no later than 15 working days after
the receipt of the application whether or not a proposed adult establishment
complies with the requirements of the zoning ordinance regarding location of
the adult establishment, building, fire, health or similar state or local code
(s). In the event that Zoning Administrator fails to report to the Town Manager
within this time period, the Town Manager shall proceed with processing the
application;
         (c)   The Zoning Board Adjustment shall conduct a hearing on the
application to confirm compliance with §§
152.221 and
152.269 of this code of ordinances. If the Board confirms compliance then a
conditional use permit shall be granted and the finding to the transmitted
Zoning Administrator and the Town Manager within 20 working days of the filing
of the conditional use permit;
         (d)   The Police Chief shall report to the Zoning Administrator and
the Town Manager no later than 15 working days after the receipt of the
application by the Police Chief the results of his or her investigation of the
applicant. In the event that the Police Chief fails to report to the Zoning
Administrator within this time period, the Zoning Administrator shall proceed
with processing the application; and
         (e)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
applicable license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Zoning
Administrator, the Zoning Board of Adjustment and the Police Chief (or upon
expiration of the time periods referenced above without receiving a report),
the Zoning Administrator shall determine whether or not a license shall be
issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by the Zoning
Administrator exceed 45 working days from the date of the filing of the
conditional use permit or date of the application, whichever is greater, by the
Zoning Administrator, unless consented to by the applicant.
      (2)   In case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
Town Manager shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Police Chief;
         (b)   The Police Chief shall report to the Zoning Administrator and
the Town Manager no later than ten working days after receipt of the
application by the Police Chief the results of his or her investigation of the
applicant. In the event that the Police Chief fails to report to the Zoning
Administrator within this time period, the Town Manager shall proceed with
processing the application; and
         (c)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
appropriate license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Police Chief (or
upon expiration of either or both time periods referenced above without
receiving a report), the Zoning Administrator shall determine whether or not a
license shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by
the Zoning Administrator exceed 15 days from the date the application is
received by the Zoning Administrator, unless consented to by the applicant.
   (D)   Reasons for disapproval. The Zoning Administrator must deny the
license application for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter;
      (2)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers,
directors, and shareholders where applicable), has been convicted of a crime in
the local, state or federal court system for any violations listed in this
section;
      (3)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers and
directors, where applicable), has made false or fraudulent statements in the
application, evidence of which is disclosed by a town background investigation
or by any other lawful means;
      (4)   The application for an adult establishment does not meet the
requirements of this chapter; and
      (5)   The applicant for a sexually-oriented business has not received a
conditional use permit from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Notice of approval or disapproval.
      (1)   Upon determination by the Zoning Administrator of the disapproval
or approval of the application, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant by personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the address of the applicant as shown on the application. In the event that the
application is disapproved, the notification shall state the basis for such
disapproval.
      (2)   In the event an application is disapproved, the applicant shall
have 30 days from the receipt of this notice of disapproval to appeal the
determination to the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to §
152.270 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Changes to application. All applicants shall notify the Zoning
Administrator of any changes to the application within five working days of the
date that the change occurs.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.05 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any adult establishment.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be granted a license for an
adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall appear “bottomless” or in a state of nudity while on the
premises of the adult establishment.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall perform any specified sexual activities as defined in this
chapter, wear or use any device or covering exposed to view which stimulates
any specified anatomical area, use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined in this
chapter, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the premises of the
adult establishment.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer or patron
of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, or knowingly permit another person to touch,
fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers, whether such
specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed, while on
the premises of the adult establishment.
   (F)   There shall be a minimum separation of 72 inches between any
entertainer or performer and any patron or customer.
   (G)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall mix, dispense or serve
any alcoholic beverage.
   (H)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall solicit, receive or
accept, nor shall any customer or patron give, offer or provide, any gratuity,
tip, payment or any form of compensation for entertainment for or while either
or both is/are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This also pertains to the
purchase of an unrelated item that includes a “free” dance, act or service.
   (I)   No owner, operator, manager or other person in charge of the premises
of an adult entertainment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of 21 years of age to be in or upon the premises or knowingly
allow or permit a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 LICENSE; POSTING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every person, corporation or partnership licensed under this chapter
as an adult establishment shall post such license in a conspicuous place and
manner of the adult establishment premises.
   (B)   Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or her
license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it shall
be readily available for the inspection by town authorities responsible for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 INSPECTIONS.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of the police, fire,
zoning or other town or state departments or agencies acting in their official
capacity to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that the business is
complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.08 SUSPENSION OF REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall conduct a hearing to determine whether or not a
license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing conducted within ten
working days of his or her knowledge that:
      (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated, or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this chapter
that have occurred under such circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult establishment knew or should have known that such violations were
committed;
      (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the
application for such license, or renewal thereof;
      (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced or is being or
was used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than
that identified on the license or for a use of type other than that which the
license was issued;
      (5)   The license failed to make a complete disclosure of all information
in the application for such license or renewal thereof; or
      (6)   The owner or operator, or any partner, or any corporate officer or
director holding at adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter; or
      (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard, to
present evidence and to be represented by an attorney. Based on the evidence
produced at the hearing, the Town Manager shall order the Zoning Administrator,
within five working days after the hearing, to take any of the following
actions:
      (1)   Suspend the license for up to 90 days;
      (2)   Revoke the license;
      (3)   Place the license holder on administrative probation for a period
of up to one year, on the condition that no further violations of this chapter
occur during the period of probation; or
      (4)   Take no action.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall provide written notice of his or her decision
to the applicant by certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall
be sent immediately after the Zoning Administrator determines what action to
take, as described above.
   (D)   In the event of suspension or revocation of the license or the
placement on administrative probation, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the Zoning Board of Adjustment within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation or probation.
(Prior Code, § 112.08) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.09 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license may be renewed by making application to the Zoning
Administrator on application forms provided for that purpose. Any license
issued under this chapter shall expire as of the end of the 12-month period
from the date of issuance, and renewal applications for such licenses shall be
submitted no sooner that 45 days prior to expiration and no later that the city
business day immediately proceeding the date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment in full
of the license fee, the Zoning Administrator shall issue to the applicant a
receipt showing the date of the renewal of the application and granting
temporary extension of the license for a period of 45 days or until the
application for renewal is approved or disapproved. Any license issued under
this chapter may be renewed by issuance of a new license for an additional 12-
month period. All applications for renewal of a license shall be processed in
the manner provided for the issuance of the initial license, including the
documentation.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually- oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.11 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually-oriented businesses may be permitted as a conditional use in the C-
1P Central Business District with Parking; provided that:
   (A)   The sexually-oriented business complies with all the provisions of §
152.221 of this code of ordinances;
   (B)   The sexually-oriented business may not be located or operated within
1,000 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue or regular place of worship;
      (2)   A public or private elementary school;
      (3)   A library open to the public;
      (4)   A boundary of any M-E District;
      (5)   A licensed day care center;
      (6)   A public park or playground;
      (7)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
children; and
      (8)   Another sexually-oriented business.
   (C)   For the purpose of the chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest point of the building or structure used as part of the premises where a
sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of any use listed in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.12 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the locational or structural configuration requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed a non-conforming use. The non-conforming use
will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two years, unless
sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30
days or more. Such non-conforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If
two or more sexually-oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another
and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually-oriented business that
was first established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later-established business(es) is non-conforming.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually-oriented business license. This provision applies only
to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an
application for a business license is submitted after a business license has
expired or has been revoked.
(Prior Code, § 112.12) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000)
§ 112.13 ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours create a rebuttable presumption that the enterprise
is an adult motel, as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually-oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT and SUBRENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Prior Code, § 112.13) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.14 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 21.
(Prior Code, § 112.14) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.15 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under that age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this chapter if
the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if
the person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or
visible by any other person.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity, in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not be placed or permit a bed, sofa or
mattress in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a
reception room open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS AND LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, other video
reproduction or live performance that depicts specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designed street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Zoning Administrator may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s station
may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning Administrator or his or
her designee.
   (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operators of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designed, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required
in this division (E) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (E) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has
been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to division (A) above.
   (G)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   (H)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five footcandle as measured at the
floor level.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (J)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
   (K)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing booths or rooms.
   (L)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
   (M)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be non-porous, easily cleanable surfaces, with
no rugs or carpeting.
   (N)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of or
permanently covered by, non-porous, easily cleanable material. No wood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
(Prior Code, § 112.16) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.17 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually-oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner, except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually-oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually-oriented business.
   (E)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.17) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.18 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, it shall be unlawful for the owner or
operator of any sexually-oriented business or any person to erect, construct or
maintain any sign for the sexually-oriented business other than one primary
sign and one attached sign, as provided herein.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each such
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (3)   Not exceed 50 square feet in area or as provided for in §
152.110 of this code of ordinances; and
      (4)   Not exceed 14 feet in height.
   (C)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   (D)   Each letter forming a word on the primary sign shall be of a solid
color, and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size and color. The
background behind such lettering on display surface of a primary sign shall be
of a uniform and solid color.
(Prior Code, § 112.18) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.19 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation of all sexually-oriented businesses within the town shall
be restricted to 9:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(Prior Code, § 112.19) (Ord. passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Operation; expiration
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 OPERATION; EXPIRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person, corporation or entity may
operate within the town any public enterprise, as defined by G.S. § 160A-311,
without first obtaining a franchise from the town, nor may any person,
corporation or entity continue to operate such public enterprise after the
expiration of such franchise.
(Ord. 2011-, passed 3-14-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of §
113.01 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the
amount of $100, to be recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued written
notice of violation which must be paid within 72 hours after receipt of said
notice. If the violator does not pay the penalty within 72 hours, the town may
recover such penalty, and all subsequently accruing penalties, in a civil
action.
   (B)   Each act committed in violation of §
113.01 of this chapter shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing remedies, §
113.01 of this chapter may be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies
issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Violation of §
113.01 of this chapter shall not be a misdemeanor. In the event it is necessary
for the town to institute a civil action to collect a civil penalty for the
violation of any provision of §
113.01 of this chapter, the offender shall pay all court costs and reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the town.
(Ord. 2011-, passed 3-14-2011)
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITATION
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Administration
   
114.03   Scope of permitted activity
   
114.04   Permit issuance
   
114.05   Permit denial and revocation
   
114.06   Appeal of denial or revocation
   
114.07   Prohibited conduct
   
114.08   Warning citation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. The process of contesting the denial or revocation of a PERMIT.
   APPLICANT. A person who applies for a PERMIT.
   APPLICATION. An application for a PERMIT.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Town of Banner Elk, North
Carolina, or his or her designee.
   CHILD. A minor person under 16 years of age.
   CITATION. A written notice issued by a law enforcement official to any
person who violates this chapter.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A domestic dog or domestic cat.
   FALSE STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACT. An affirmative statement, written or oral,
that is untrue or misleading. A FALSE STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACT includes, but
is not limited to, statement(s) regarding the scope or quality of goods or
services offered by the SOLICITOR, statement(s) that the SOLICITOR represents a
group or charity, statement(s) that a SOLICITOR is a veteran of the United
States military, or statements regarding family or housing status. A FALSE
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACT also includes wearing an identification, badge,
emblem, uniform, or symbol that a reasonable person would believe identifies
the SOLICITOR as part of, or as acting on behalf of, any group or charity when
the SOLICITOR is not in fact part of, or acting on behalf of, the identified
group or charity.
   HEARING. An in-person proceeding to contesting the denial or revocation of a
PERMIT, during which the APPLICANT may give testimony and present evidence.
   NOTICE OF APPEAL RIGHTS. A written notice of the APPLICANT’S right to appeal
the denial or revocation of a PERMIT, to whom the appeal should be made, and
the time limit for making an appeal.
   NOTICE OF DENIAL. Written notice that a PERMIT has been denied.
   PERMIT. A written PERMIT issued by the Chief of Police granting the
APPLICANT the right to SOLICIT.
   PERMIT HOLDER. A person to whom a PERMIT is issued.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. An animal that is individually trained to do work or perform
tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, as allowed by G.S. §
168-4.2.
   SOLICIT. In person use of the spoken, written, or printed word, or other
acts conducted with the purpose of selling or offering for sale goods or
services or collecting contributions of money or goods. This definition shall
not include collecting contributions or money or goods on behalf of a 501(c)3
non-profit corporation as recognized by the United States Internal Revenue
Service.
   SOLICITED INDIVIDUAL. A person whom a SOLICITOR attempts to SOLICIT.
   SOLICITOR. A person who SOLICITS.
   TIME. In computing any period of time under this chapter, the day of the act
shall not to be included.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Banner Elk, North Carolina, or
his or her designee.
   VIOLATION. A violation of this chapter.
   WARNING CITATION. A citation given as a warning. A WARNING CITATION does not
subject the SOLICITOR to penalties resulting from a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 114.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department is responsible for the administration of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 114.03 SCOPE OF PERMITTED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to solicit for personal gain upon the streets or any other public
property, or upon private property without the permission of the owner,
proprietor, or person in control of said private property without first
obtaining a permit from the Police Department. The issuance of a permit shall
not affect the obligation of the permittee to obtain permission of an owner of
private property to be upon the premises if otherwise required.
   (B)   False statements. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
solicitor to make a false statement of material fact for the purpose of
solicitation.
   (C)   Exempt activity. This chapter shall not apply to transactions between
family members or mutual acquaintances; or any matter that is not soliciting,
as defined in §
114.01 of this chapter.
   (D)   Possession of permit. A permit holder shall keep his or her permit in
his or her possession when soliciting and shall exhibit his or her permit when
requested to do so by any solicited individual or any law enforcement officer.
   (E)   Permit not transferrable. Permits are not transferrable. It shall be a
violation to give a permit to another person, or to possess a permit issued to
another person unless the person receiving or possessing the permit of another
is the parent, step-parent, or guardian of the permit holder, or is acting at
the request of a parent, step-parent, or guardian of the permit holder.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Chief of Police shall issue permit. The Chief of Police shall issue a
permit, or a temporary permit, as appropriate, to each applicant who meets the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application procedure.
      (1)   The application shall be on a form issued by the Chief of Police,
signed by the applicant and witnessed by the Chief of Police, and shall set
forth the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s first and last names and middle initial;
         (b)   The applicant’s date of birth;
         (c)   The applicant’s contact information;
         (d)   The applicant’s emergency contact information;
         (e)   A brief description of the activity to be conducted, including,
if applicable, any items or services to be sold or offered for sale; and
         (f)   If the applicant is soliciting on behalf of a group or charity,
the name and address of the group or charity.
      (2)   The applicant’s contact information may include any of the
following:
         (a)   An address serviced by the United States Postal System;
         (b)   An email address;
         (c)   A telephone number(s); or
         (d)   Any information that the Chief of Police may reasonably use to
contact the applicant.
      (3)   The applicant’s emergency contact information may include any of
the following:
         (a)   An address serviced by the United States Postal System;
         (b)   An email address;
         (c)   A telephone number(s); or
         (d)   Any information that the Chief of Police may reasonably use to
contact the emergency contact person(s) specified by the applicant.
   (C)   Identification required. The applicant shall present identification.
Any valid government-issued photo identification shall be deemed sufficient. If
the applicant does not possess valid government-issued photo identification,
the applicant may present other documentation that reasonably establishes his
or her identity.
   (D)   Chief of Police to keep record of identification. The Chief of Police
shall make a black and white copy of the applicant’s identification and keep
the same on file. If the applicant does not possess valid government-issued
photo identification, the applicant shall allow himself or herself to be
photographed by the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall keep the
photograph on file.
   (E)   Identification if the applicant is a minor. If the applicant is a
minor and does not possess valid government-issued photo identification, he or
she may present a valid photo identification, non-photo identification, or
other documentation from any public or private school, including a home school,
recognized by any state in the United States of America that reasonably
establishes his or her identity.
   (F)   Criminal background check. The Chief of Police shall perform a
criminal background check on all applicants.
   (G)   Applicant shall provide sufficient information. The applicant shall
provide his or her first and last name, middle initial, and date of birth. If
this information is deemed insufficient by the Chief of Police, the applicant
shall provide additional information sufficient to allow the Chief of Police to
conduct a criminal background check. If the applicant does not provide
sufficient information to allow the Chief of Police to conduct a criminal
background check, the Chief of Police shall deny a permit or a temporary
permit.
   (H)   Applicant may provide Social Security number. To reduce the potential
for confusion when running a criminal background check, the applicant may
choose to provide his or her Social Security number. The applicant’s provision
of his or her Social Security number is optional, and shall not be required.
However, if the applicant cannot provide sufficient information other than his
or her Social Security number to allow the Chief of Police to conduct a
criminal background check, and the applicant elects not to provide his or her
Social Security number, then the Chief of Police shall deny a permit or a
temporary permit.
   (I)   No permit fee. No applicant shall be charged a fee for a permit.
   (J)   Lost permit. If an applicant loses a permit, he or she may apply for a
new permit.
   (K)   Assistance with application. The Chief of Police shall provide
reasonable assistance completing the application to any person who requests the
same.
   (L)   List of volunteers. The Chief of Police shall maintain a list of
organizations and/or volunteers, along with their contact information, who have
asked the Chief of Police to be put on a list of organizations and/or
volunteers willing to assist applicants free of charge. If the Chief of Police
is unable to provide the assistance needed by the applicant, the Chief of
Police shall give a copy of the list to the applicant.
   (M)   Temporary permit. All applicants who present a properly completed
application shall be issued a temporary permit. A temporary permit shall be
good for 14 calendar days. A temporary permit shall state the date upon which
it is granted, and the date upon which it expires.
   (N)   Extension of temporary permit. If the Chief of Police has neither
issued a permit nor denied a permit application by the time a temporary permit
expires, the Chief of Police shall issue another temporary permit.
   (O)   Permit expiration. A permit shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance. A permit shall state the date upon which it is granted, and the
date upon which it expires.
   (P)   Protective vest. All individuals engaged in solicitation under this
chapter shall wear a reflective vest which meets standards set by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation at all times while engaged in
solicitation activities. Upon the issuance of a permit, the Chief of Police
shall have available to permittee’s a vest which complies with these
requirements and shall be available to permittee without charge.
   (Q)   Protective vest for minor accompanying a solicitor. All children
accompanying or being supervised by individuals engaged in solicitation under
this chapter shall wear a reflective vest which meets the standards set by the
North Carolina Department of Transportation at all times while the person they
are accompanying or being supervised by is engaged in solicitation activities.
Upon the issuance of a permit, the Chief of Police shall have available to all
such minor children a vest which complies with these requirements, which shall
be available to the minor child(ren) without charge so long as said minor child
(ren) appear in person at the office of the Chief of Police with the permittee.
   (R)   Solicitor may not be accompanied by domestic animals. No individual
engaged in solicitation under this chapter may be accompanied by any domestic
animal if the individual is soliciting within 15 feet of a road, street, or
highway. Service animals are exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 114.05 PERMIT DENIAL AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permit denial. A permit shall be denied if the applicant has:
      (1)   Failed to properly complete an application;
      (2)   Made a false statement of material fact on his or her application;
      (3)   Been convicted or has entered a plea of guilty or no contest upon
which final judgment has been entered by a court of competent jurisdiction in
this state, or any other state, involving a crime of violence, fraud, false
pretenses, or a sexual offense; and within ten years if the offense was a
felony, or within three years if the offense was a misdemeanor; or
      (4)   An outstanding warrant for arrest or is a fugitive from justice.
   (B)   Permit revocation.
      (1)   If a permit holder commits a violation, the Chief of Police shall
revoke the permit holder’s permit. Upon notice of revocation, the permit holder
shall immediately surrender the permit to the Chief of Police.
      (2)   If a permit is revoked for any reason, the permit holder shall not
be eligible for a permit for the following time periods:
         (a)   Upon the first revocation, for one month;
         (b)   Upon the second revocation, for six months; and
         (c)   Upon the third revocation, for one year.
   (C)   False statements. Any applicant who makes a false statement of
material fact on an application shall be guilty of violating this chapter,
shall not be issued a permit, and shall not be eligible for a permit for a
period of one year from the initial date of application.
   (D)   Notice of denial.
      (1)   If a permit is denied, the Chief of Police shall issue a notice of
denial to the applicant, which shall contain the following:
         (a)   The reason(s) for the denial;
         (b)   The applicable section of this chapter used as a basis for the
denial;
         (c)   A notice of appeal rights; and
         (d)   How to obtain a copy of this chapter, including that the
applicant may obtain a free copy of this chapter from the Chief of Police.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the applicant to maintain a valid address
with the Police Department for purpose of receiving notice pursuant to this
chapter. Notice of denial shall be sufficient if given to the applicant in one
of the following manners:
         (a)   By U.S. mail, at the address shown on the application;
         (b)   If the applicant does not provide an address serviced by the
United States Postal Service; then by electronic mail, at the electronic mail
address shown on the application; or
         (c)   If the applicant does not provide an address serviced by the
United States Postal Service or an electronic mail address, service may be
effectuated at the address listed by the applicant in his or her paperwork by
any reasonable method.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 114.06 APPEAL OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Appeal to Town Manager. Any applicant may appeal a decision of the
Chief of Police to the Town Manager within ten business days after the decision
of the Chief of Police is issued by delivering a written notice of appeal to
the Town Manager. The Town Manager shall schedule a hearing with the applicant,
which hearing shall take place within five business days. The applicant may
give testimony and present evidence at the hearing. The Town Manager shall
issue a final decision within five business days.
   (B)   Appeal to District Court. Any applicant may appeal a final decision of
the Town Manager by filing an appeal in District Court within 30 calendar days
after the final decision of the Town Manager.
   (C)   Providing copy of chapter. The Chief of Police shall provide to each
applicant one copy of this chapter without charge upon the applicant’s written
or verbal request.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 114.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in solicitation as defined in §
114.01 of this chapter without first having obtained a permit as set forth
herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the jurisdiction set forth
in this chapter to engage in any of the following activities:
      (1)   Engage in solicitation after a permit has been revoked or denied;
      (2)   Use any words or language of a profane, vulgar, lewd, lascivious,
or indecent character, nature, or connotation;
      (3)   Use any words or language threatening to inflict bodily harm to any
person or to that person's child, sibling, spouse, or dependent or physical
injury to the property of any person;
      (4)   To follow or request repeatedly, whether or not conversation
ensues, for the purpose of abusing, annoying, threatening, terrifying,
harassing, or embarrassing any person for financial gain;
      (5)   To knowingly make any false statement concerning death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, indecent conduct, criminal conduct, veteran status, or
housing status for financial gain;
      (6)   Solicit during the period from sunset to sunrise;
      (7)   Solicit while under the influence of an intoxicating substance,
including but not limited to alcohol, drugs, or prescription medications for
which the solicitator does not have a prescription;
      (8)   Solicit in violation of the terms of this chapter; or
      (9)   Fail to wear a protective safety vest at all times while engaged in
solicitation which meets the North Carolina Department of Transportation
Standards for safety vests.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 WARNING CITATION.
   The Chief of Police shall issue one warning citation to any person
soliciting without a permit in violation of this chapter. If, after receiving
one warning citation, the Chief of Police again finds the person soliciting
without a permit, the Chief of Police may proceed with penalties as set forth
herein. Nothing contained in this section shall limit the Chief of Police from
enforcement of an action in violation of the requirements of the permit or
other conduct as set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor. In addition, a
violation of this chapter may be enforced by any one or more of the remedies
authorized by G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharging weapons
   
130.02   Interfering with pipes, drains, wiring or the like
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot any gun,
pistol, match pistol or explosive material upon any street, sidewalk or lot
within the town (except in defense of person or property) without permission
first obtained from the Chief of Police in writing; and the Chief of Police
shall have power to grant any permit under this section for one day only, and
that only upon good reason shown therefor; provided that, this section shall
not apply to the operation of any shooting gallery, rifle range, skeet range or
other controlled type of shooting.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or propel any missile
from a slingshot or by means of a rubber gun upon any street, sidewalk or lot
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Explosives; authority to regulate, see G.S. § 160A-183
   Firearms, authority to regulate, see G.S. § 160A-189
   Pellet guns and other mechanisms; authority to regulate, see G.S. § 160A-190
§ 130.02 INTERFERING WITH PIPES, DRAINS, WIRING OR THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with any pipe
line or drain, or any ditch connected with any pipe line or drain, or with any
electric light pole or wiring, or any work being done by the town employees, or
by contract for the town.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 150: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization
   
150.02   Findings of fact
   
150.03   Statement of purpose
   
150.04   Objectives
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
150.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
150.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
150.09   Compliance
   
150.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.11   Interpretation
   
150.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
150.13   Effect on rights and liabilities under existing ordinance
   
150.14   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
Administration
   
150.25   Floodplain Administrator
   
150.26   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
   
150.27   Corrective procedures
   
150.28   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.40   General standards
   
150.41   Specific standards
   
150.42   Floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
150.43   Riverine floodplains with BFE but without established floodways or
non-encroachment areas
   
150.44   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
150.45   Areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, part 6, G.S. Ch.
160A, Art. 8, and G.S. Ch. 160D, Arts. 7, 11, and 13, delegated to local
governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the
Town Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-1)
§ 150.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures of
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-2)
§ 150.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or that result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion of flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-3)
§ 150.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life, safety and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure or public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas, and;
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-4)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common URBAN ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole bams, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or the shop building.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). Any extension or increase of the floor
area or height of a building or a structure.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet. These
areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow
may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area”, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, established the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically-
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading, or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as “Zone A”.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventative measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power. This term describes federal,
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY-DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminary
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminary determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to a qualify
as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
      (2)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of Interior in cooperation with the state’s Department of Cultural
Resources through the state’s Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Preservation Act of 1966, as amended in 1980,
being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, unable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevation (BFE) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface, more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top pf the lowest floor for structures within the
special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus three feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for storage, collection and/
or recycling of any type of equipment and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
150.07 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition replacement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation on the property of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footing, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvements”. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by
a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the
cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation of a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
150.25 through
150.28 and
150.40 through
150.45 of this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-5)
§ 150.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction, including the extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJs), if
applicable, of the town and within the jurisdiction of any other community
whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-6)
§ 150.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRM), for Avery County dated 12-2-2008, which are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date:
      (1)   Avery County Unincorporated Area, dated 9-28-1990; and
      (2)   Town of Banner Elk, dated 12-2-2008.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-7)
§ 150.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
150.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-8)
§ 150.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-9)
§ 150.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-10)
§ 150.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-11)
§ 150.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-12)
§ 150.13 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER EXISTING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted 1-4-1988 as amended, and is
not the intention to repeal, but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town enacted on 1-4-1988, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are
repealed. The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for Avery
County is 3-7-1988.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-26)
§ 150.14 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that, when construction is not begun under
construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-27)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer, herein referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-14)
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas
to assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been
received;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
150.44 of this chapter are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
150.26 (C) of this chapter;
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with the provisions of §
150.26 (C) of this chapter;
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
150.26 (C) of this chapter;
      (9)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
150.26 (C) and
150.41(B) of this chapter;
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment
areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions) make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
150.07 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonable utilize any base flood
elevation (BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data
available from a federal, state or other source, including data developed
pursuant to §
150.42(B)(2) of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided, but no floodway
or non-encroachment area date has been provided in accordance with §
150.07 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data
or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source
in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is
above the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option to
apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the floodplain development
permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended, being 5 U.S.C. § 552a;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the purpose
of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permit as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purpose of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures in §
150.27 of this chapter;
      (20)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
150.07 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS Reports and FIRMs, including Letters
of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) and Letters of Map Revisions (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-16)
§ 150.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/ disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility system,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
150.07 of this chapter or a statement that the entire lot is within the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
150.07 of this chapter;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
150.07 of this chapter;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
150.07,
150.25(B) or
150.42 of this chapter;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood-proofed;
      (3)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise and
maintenance of flood-proofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
150.41(D)(3) of this chapter when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in
Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30;
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
150.41(F) and (G) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation;
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
150.07 of this chapter;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements within timelines;
      (6)   A statement indicating that no fill material or other development
shall encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse,
as applicable;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30;
and
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses of parking area and storm
water management facilities.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to issue to withhold the issuance
of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Flood-proofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential flood-proofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA
Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood-proofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea
level. Flood-proofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by the same.
The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such a
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above the
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with
provisions of §
150.41(C)(2) of this chapter.
         (c)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
         (d)   The following structures, if located within Zone A, AO, AE or
A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing certification requirements
specified in divisions (C)(2)(d)1. amd (C)(2)(d)2. below:
            1.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
150.41(F)(1) of this chapter;
            2.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
150.41(G) of this chapter; and
            3.   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
150.41(H) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-15)
§ 150.27 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building, or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-17)
§ 150.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by Town Council, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation or historic structures upon
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
150.05 of this chapter; provided, provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3) and
(I)(5) below have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety; and
      (3)   Any other type of development; provided, it meets the requirements
of this Section.
   (D)   In passing upon variance, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
150.05 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
developments;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-proofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and focal
laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the state’s Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-18)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water
heaters and electrical outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback; provided, there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or
stream setback; and, provided that, such repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
150.28(J) of this chapter. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or flood-proofed to at least
the regulatory flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the
provisions of §
150.26(C) of this chapter.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard risk zones or in
a flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions
for the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-19)
§ 150.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
150.07 or
150.42 of this chapter, the following provisions are required, in addition to
the provisions of §
150.40 of this chapter are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AE, AO and A1-30 Zones may be
flood-proofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of
elevation; provided that, all areas of the structure, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection
elevation are water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones,
the flood-proofing elevation shall be in accordance with §
150.45(B)(2) of this chapter. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
150.25(B)(E) of this chapter, along with the operational plan and the
inspection and maintenance plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist floatation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes, adopted by the Commissioner of insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of a new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such an enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate
rooms, except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of flood waters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow flood waters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
covering or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlines above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for a new construction; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicle shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., a minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met.
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas).
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters.
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
150.40(A) of this chapter.
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
150.40(D) of this chapter.
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation n conformance with the provisions of division (D)(3) above.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation of
flood-proofing certificate. Elevation or flood-proofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
150.26(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-20)
§ 150.42 FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
150.07 of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
150.40 of this chapter, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from the top of bank or five times the width of the stream whichever
is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria.
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) date is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or flood-proofed in accordance with standards in §§
150.40 and
150.41 of this chapter.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements within
floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the requirements of
§§
150.41 and
150.44 of this chapter.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured homes park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
150.07 of this chapter and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or flood-proofed (non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05 of this chapter. All other applicable provisions of §
150.41 of this chapter shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-22)
§ 150.43 RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR
NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway, nor non-encroachment areas, are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
150.40 and
150.41 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-23)
§ 150.44 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
150.07 of this chapter. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood waters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
150.40 and
150.41 of this chapter, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   Non-encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactures homes in an existing manufactures home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
150.41(C) of this chapter; and
         (b)   The no-encroachment standard of division (B)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-24)
§ 150.45 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
150.07 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
150.40 and
150.41 of this chapter, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least feet above the
highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be flood-
proofed to the same level as required in division (B)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with §§
150.26(C) and
150.41(B) of this chapter.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-25)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008, § 16-13)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Short title
   
151.02   Authority and enactment
   
151.03   Jurisdiction
   
151.04   Purpose
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Exceptions and variances
   
151.07   Amendments
Plat Submission Procedure and Requirements
   
151.20   Sketch plan submission and general information
   
151.21   Sketch plan requirements
   
151.22   Procedures for review and approval of all subdivisions (major, minor,
minor subdivisions for conveying property to heirs and special subdivisions)
   
151.23   Procedure for review of minor subdivision, minor subdivisions for
conveying property to heirs and special subdivisions otherwise specified
   
151.24   Preliminary plat submission
   
151.25   Preliminary plat requirements
   
151.26   Final plat submission
   
151.27   Final plat recording
   
151.28   Final plat requirements
   
151.29   Phased developments
   
151.30   Permanent reference points
   
151.31   Improvements
General Requirements and Minimum Design Standards
   
151.45   General requirements
   
151.46   Streets
   
151.47   Lots
   
151.48   Easements
   
151.49   Environmental considerations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Banner Elk, North Carolina”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.02 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Town Council, pursuant to the authority conferred by an act of the
General Assembly of the state (G.S. § 160D-201), does hereby ordain and enact
into law these articles and sections.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.03 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land lying within the
corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town, as now or
hereafter established.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.04 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of the real estate within the corporate limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town in an effort to, among other things,
ensure proper legal description, identification, monumentation and recordation
of real estate boundaries; further the orderly layout and appropriate use of
the land; provide safe, convenient and economic circulation of vehicular
traffic; provide suitable building sites which are readily accessible to
emergency vehicles; assure the proper installation of streets and utilities;
promote the eventual elimination of unsafe or unsanitary conditions arising
from undue concentration of population; help conserve and protect the physical
and economic resources of the town and its environs.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in front
of which no structure shall be erected.
   CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS. A subdivision of land which permits the reduction of
the required lot sizes and dimensional requirements, subject to the dedication
of required open space and active recreational areas, as defined herein and in
§
152.032 of this code of ordinances. CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS may be permitted in
the R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts in accordance with the requirements and
standards in §
152.165 of this code of ordinances. The CLUSTER SUBDIVISION shall be reviewed
in accordance with the procedures and requirements for a major subdivision and
the requirements of §
152.165 of this code of ordinances.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street designed to carry medium volumes of vehicular
traffic, provide access to the major street system and collect the vehicular
traffic from the intersecting minor streets.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street permanently terminated by a turn-around.
   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous lot of the same depth as the width of a
block containing the two tiers of lots and which is accessible from both of the
streets upon which it fronts.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of use, by the public, a corporation
or person(s) of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   GROUP DEVELOPMENT. A development comprising two or more buildings such as a
group of apartments, and the land is not subdivided into the customary streets
and lots.
   HIGHWAY. A traffic artery designed primarily to carry heavy volumes of local
vehicular traffic.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for the development of both. The word LOT
includes the word “plot” or “parcel”.
   MAJOR STREETS. A street designed primarily to carry heavy volumes of local
vehicular traffic.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor (service) street which parallels and is
immediately adjacent to a minor street or highway; and which provides access to
abutting property.
   MINOR STREETS. A street, the principal purpose of which is to provide
vehicular access to the properties abutting it.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION FOR CONVEYING PROPERTY TO HEIRS. The conveyance of a tract
or tracts to a grantee who would have been an heir of the grantor if the
grantor had died intestate immediately prior to the conveyance; or the
conveyance of a tract or tracts for the purpose of dividing lands among the
tenants in common, all of whom inherited by intestacy or by will, the land from
a common ancestor.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of land involving no new public or private
streets or roads, right-of-way dedications, easements or utility extensions,
where the entire tract to be subdivided is five acres or less in size, and
where four or fewer lots are created by the subdivision.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town
Council as a guide for the development of the town and surrounding area.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Banner Elk Planning Board.
   SHALL. The act referred to is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon limited access highway, a railroad,
a physical barrier or a non-residential use and to which access from the rear
of the lot is usually prohibited.
   SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS. Other divisions of land for specific uses not
otherwise specified by this chapter (which may include such examples as
cemeteries, boundary disputes and the like); and the subdivision of land within
a PRD and PRCD; provided, the subdivision conforms with the requirements of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances for special subdivisions.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision, as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract of parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions, for the purpose whether immediate or
future, of sale or building development, and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
provided, however, that, the following shall not be included within this
definition nor be subject to the regulations prescribed by this chapter.
      (1)   The combination or re-combination of portions of previously platted
lots where the total number of lots are not increased and the resultant lots
are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as required by this chapter.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets.
      (4)   The division of a tract of land in single ownership whose entire
area is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved, and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the town, as required by this chapter.
   “Y” OR “T” TURNING SPACES. The termination of a street which will allow a
vehicle to turn around with the use of one backing movement.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-2-1988; Ord. passed 8-5-1991; Ord. passed 11-4-
1991; Ord. passed 11-13-2000; Ord. passed 4-9-2007)
§ 151.06 EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Exceptions. The standards and requirements of this chapter may be
modified by the Planning Board in the case of a plan or program for a complete
group development, which, in the judgment of the Board, provides adequate
public spaces and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air and
service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also
provided such covenants or other legal provisions as may assure conformity to
and achievement of the plan.
   (B)   Variances. Where strict adherence to any of the provisions of this
chapter would cause unnecessary hardship, due to topographical or other
conditions peculiar to the site, the Planning Board may recommend and the Town
Council may approve a variance. The reasons for the granting of any such
variance shall be clearly specified and entered into the minutes of the Town
Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.07 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Town Council as herein
specified, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been
proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review and
recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 30 days within which to submit
its report. If the Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified
time, it shall be deemed to have approved the amendment.
(Ord. passed - -)
PLAT SUBMISSION PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.20 SKETCH PLAN SUBMISSION AND GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   General. Whenever any subdivision of a tract of land is proposed to be
made, the subdivider shall submit to the Secretary of the Planning Board at
least 45 days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting a sketch plan of the
proposed subdivision, together with a sketch vicinity map and any other data
which will convey his or her intentions as to the proposed layout and type of
development. The subdivider shall appear at the regularly scheduled meeting of
the Planning Board to discuss the proposed subdivision and become familiar with
the application of the regulations affecting the land to be subdivided.
   (B)   Plat shall be required on any subdivision of land. Pursuant to G.S. §
160D-803, a final plat shall be prepared, approved and recorded in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter whenever any subdivision of land, as herein
defined, occurs within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (C)   Active recreation area requirement. The sketch and plat shall show
active recreation area as required in §
152.032 of this code of ordinances or specify that fees in lieu of provided
land shall be paid upon approval of the final plat and in accordance with the
town’s Fee Schedule.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-2-1988; Ord. passed 4-9-2007)
§ 151.21 SKETCH PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   A simple sketch plan shall be drawn at a scale of at least 100 feet
to one inch and show the tentative street layout, rights-of-way, lot
arrangements, the location of the nearest water and sewer lines, watercourses,
existing structures, total acres, approximate number of lots, adjoining
streets, north point, tract boundary and proposed use of land.
      (2)   No construction or installation of the improvements shall commence
in a proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved by the
appropriate authorities. No building or other permits shall be issued for
erection of a structure on any lot of record at the time of adoption of this
chapter until all the requirements of this chapter have been met. The
subdivider, prior to commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make
arrangements with the administrator of this chapter to provide for adequate
inspection. The approving authorities having jurisdiction or their
representatives shall inspect and approve all completed work prior to release
of the sureties.
   (B)   Approval prerequisite to plat recordation. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
803, no final plat of a subdivision within the jurisdiction of this chapter as
established in §
151.03 of this chapter shall be recorded by the Register of Deeds of the county
until it has been approved in accordance with the procedures established
herein. To secure such approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall follow
the procedures established in this section.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-2-1988)
§ 151.22 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF ALL SUBDIVISIONS (MAJOR, MINOR,
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS FOR CONVEYING PROPERTY TO HEIRS AND SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS).
   All subdivisions shall be considered major subdivisions, except those
defined as minor subdivisions, minor subdivisions for conveying property to
heirs and special subdivisions. Major subdivisions shall be reviewed and
approved in accordance with the procedures in §
151.24 of this chapter. Minor subdivisions and minor subdivisions conveying
property to heirs shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with the
provisions in §
151.23 of this chapter. Special subdivisions shall be reviewed and approved in
accordance with the provisions in §
151.23 of this chapter, except when the special subdivision is a part of a
planned residential development or a planned commercial development and said
special subdivision shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with §
151.24 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-2-1988)
§ 151.23 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF MINOR SUBDIVISION, MINOR SUBDIVISIONS FOR
CONVEYING PROPERTY TO HEIRS AND SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions.
      (1)   Information. The minor subdivision shall be reviewed and approved
in accordance with the provisions of this section; provided that, the applicant
not own, have a lease, hold an option on or hold any legal or equitable
interest in any property adjacent to or located directly across a street,
easement, road or right-of-way from the property to be subdivided. Furthermore,
the minor subdivision review procedure may not be used a second time within
three years of final plat approval on any property less than 1,500 feet from
the original property boundaries by anyone who owned, had an option on or any
legal interest in the original minor subdivision at the time the subdivision
received final plat approval. Prior to recording a final plat for a minor
subdivision, the applicant shall submit and provide the following information
to the subdivision administrator:
         (a)   Evidence that the proposed minor subdivision meets the
definition in §
151.05 of this chapter and the standards in this division (A);
         (b)   Three copies of the surveyed final plat of the tract to be
subdivided. The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state and shall conform to the
provisions for plats, subdivisions and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. §
47-30 and the standards of practice for land surveying in the state;
         (c)   Method of providing access to each tract from an existing public
road;
         (d)   Conformance to the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements
of this chapter;
         (e)   Evidence from the county’s Health Department that the proposed
lots are adequate for the provision of individual wells and septic systems when
public water or sewer service is not available to the proposed subdivision;
         (f)   Topographic mapping with contour intervals not exceeding five
feet for tracts that exceed 16% slope; and
         (g)   Conformance with
Ch. 150 of this code of ordinances for tracts located in the flood hazard area.
      (2)   Review approval. The subdivision administrator is hereby authorized
to approve the minor subdivision upon finding that said subdivision meets the
requirements of this section. The subdivision administrator shall certify the
approval of the minor subdivision and the approved plat shall be signed by the
Mayor of the town. Upon certification by the subdivision administrator and with
the signature of the Mayor, the applicant shall have the approved final plat
recorded by the Register of Deeds of the county within 30 days of said
approval.
      (3)   Appeal. If the minor subdivision is disapproved by the subdivision
administrator, or if variances are requested, the minor subdivision shall be
reviewed by the Planning Board and submitted to the Town Council for approval
or disapproval, or for consideration of any requested variance.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions for conveying property to heirs.
      (1)   Information. The minor subdivision for conveying property to heirs
shall be reviewed and approved by the subdivision administrator in accordance
with the provisions of this section. The applicant for said subdivision shall
submit the following to the subdivision administrator:
         (a)   Evidence that the proposed subdivision conforms with the
definition in §
151.05 of this chapter;
         (b)   Three copies of the surveyed final plat of the tract to be
subdivided. The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state and shall conform to the
provision for plats, subdivisions and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. §
47-30 and the standards of practice for land surveying in the state;
         (c)   Methods of providing access to each tract or lot from an
existing public or private road; provided that, any access shown not be less
than a 45-foot right-of-way, except as herein provided:
            1.   The total acreage of property to be served by the extension of
an existing substandard road, recorded prior to 9-11-1978 shall not exceed a
maximum of seven acres or not more than five lots;
            2.   Said existing road cannot be feasibly extended to adjacent
properties outside of the subdivision for heirs because of topography or other
physical conditions; and
            3.   Said road extension shall not exceed a grade of 18%, a right-
of-way width which is less than the existing road right-of-way but in no case
less than 20 feet, and a maximum length not to exceed 500 feet.
         (d)   All lots or tracts in the proposed subdivision shall conform to
the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Review and approval. The subdivision administrator is hereby
authorized to approve the minor subdivision for conveying property to heirs
upon finding that said subdivision meets the requirements of this section. The
subdivision administrator shall certify the approval of said subdivision and
the approved plat shall be signed by the Mayor of the town. Upon certification
by the subdivision administrator and with the signature of the Mayor, the
applicant shall have the approved final plat recorded by the Register of Deeds
of the county within 30 days of said approval.
      (3)   Appeal. If the minor subdivision for conveying property to heirs is
disapproved by the subdivision administrator, or if variances are requested,
said subdivision shall be reviewed by the Planning Board and submitted to the
Town Council for approval or disapproval, or for consideration of any requested
variance.
   (C)   Special subdivisions.
      (1)   Information. The special subdivision shall be reviewed and approved
in accordance with the provisions of this section by the subdivision
administrator, except when said subdivision is a part of a planned residential
development or a planned commercial development. The applicant for said
subdivision shall submit the following to the subdivision administrator:
         (a)   Three copies of the surveyed final plat of the tract to be
subdivided. The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state and shall conform to the
provisions for plats, subdivisions and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. §
47-30 and the standards of practice for land surveyors in the state;
         (b)   Documentation of the purpose and proposed use of the special
subdivision in conformance with the definition in §
151.05 of this chapter;
         (c)   Documentation of the reasons for the creation of any lot or
parcel which does not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other information required by the subdivision administrator.
      (2)   Review and approval. The subdivision administrator is hereby
authorized to approve special subdivisions upon finding that said subdivision
meets the requirements of this section. The subdivision administrator shall
certify the approval of said subdivision and the approved plat shall be signed
by the Mayor of the town. Upon certification by the subdivision administrator
and with the signature of the Mayor, the applicant shall have the approved
final plat recorded by the Register of Deeds of the county within 30 days of
said approval.
      (3)   Appeal. If the special subdivision is disapproved by the
subdivision administrator, or if variances are requested, said subdivision
shall be reviewed by the Planning Board and submitted to the Town Council for
approval or disapproval, or for consideration of any requested variance.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-2-1988; Ord. passed 6-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-
13-2000)
§ 151.24 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION.
   The procedure for obtaining preliminary plat approval is as follows.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit to the Secretary of the Planning Board at
least 15 days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting:
      (1)   At least three black or blueline prints of the proposed subdivision
prepared in accordance with the plat requirements. Additional prints may be
required when deemed necessary;
      (2)   The subdivider shall pay a subdivision inspection fee as outlined
in the town’s Fee Schedule within ten days of approval of the preliminary plat;
and
      (3)   The subdivider shall pay the water and sewer impact charges as
indicated in the town’s Fee Schedule within ten days of approval of the
preliminary plat for any phase of development.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat
within a period of 45 days from the time of its regularly scheduled meeting. If
conditional approval or if disapproval is given, the reasons for such action
shall be stated in writing and reference with which the preliminary plat does
not comply.
   (C)   If the Planning Board fails to act within the time period as specified
in division (B) above, the subdivider shall request preliminary approval of the
Town Council at its next scheduled meeting.
   (D)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period not
to exceed one year and, thereafter, expire and be considered null and void,
except to the extent that work on the subdivision has progressed, unless a
petition for an extension of time is submitted to and subsequently approved by
the Planning Board.
   (E)   Before acting on the preliminary plat, the Planning Board may request
a report from any person or agency directly concerned with the proposed
development, such as the District Highway Engineer, County Health Department
and the Superintendent of Schools, and such other officials or agencies thought
necessary. Such report shall certify compliance with or note deviations from
the requirements of this chapter and include comments on other factors which
bear upon the public interest.
   (F)   Where this chapter requires proof of approval from state or local
agencies, the subdivider or his or her agent shall submit written evidence from
the approving agency that the required plans have been received by the agency.
The written evidence of submission shall be received by the subdivision
administrator prior to the Planning Board’s first consideration of the
preliminary plat.
      (1)   If the proposed streets will be dedicated to the Department of
Transportation, written verification is required from the appropriate
Department of Transportation official, stipulation that the plans for all
proposed street and drainage systems conform to the minimum construction
requirements of the state’s Department of Transportation’s publication,
Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards, 1-1-2000, or as hereafter
amended. Other proposed streets shall be submitted with written verification
from a registered engineer stipulating that the plans for all proposed street
and drainage systems conform to the applicable Department of Transportation’s
minimum construction standards as described in §
151.46 of this chapter.
      (2)   Written verification from the appropriate state and/or local
official(s), stipulating that the plans for proposed water supply and/or sewage
disposal system have been submitted. When connection to the town system is
proposed, all design work shall be approved by the town engineering firm, and
in all situations that the town’s water and sewer ordinances be met.
      (3)   Written verification from the appropriate state or local official
stipulating that the soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for the
proposed development has been submitted. If the Planning Board approved the
preliminary plat, such approval shall be indicated on three copies by the
following certificate signed by the Chairperson or other authorized member of
the Planning Board.
 
Certificate of Approval by the Planning Board
 
This certifies that the Banner Elk Planning Board approved the preliminary plat for the
                                                                                subdivision at its meeting on the                       day of
                                                 , 20             .
 
                                                                
Chairperson (or authorized member)
Banner Elk Planning Board
 
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-3-1986; Ord. passed 8-5-1991; Ord. passed 11-
13-2000; Ord. passed 3-27-2001)
§ 151.25 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
not less than 100 feet to one inch and may be drawn on a sheet of 14 inches by
18 inches or 18 inches by 24 inches or such other size acceptable to the
Register of Deeds of the county.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered surveyor or
civil engineer and shall show the following information:
      (1)   Name of municipality or county in which subdivision is located;
      (2)   Vicinity map showing location of the subdivision;
      (3)   Exact boundaries of the tract of land being subdivided shown with
bearings and distances;
      (4)   Names of owners of record, when available, of all adjoining land
and all boundaries which intersect the perimeter of the tract being subdivided;
      (5)   Wooded areas, marshes and any other conditions affecting the site;
      (6)   The location of existing streets, buildings, watercourses,
railroads, transmission lines, utilities, corporate limits or other
jurisdictional boundaries, and easements on or intersecting the tract being
subdivided;
      (7)   Topographic contour lines not to exceed five-foot intervals when
the area to be subdivided, including all phases, exceeds 30 acres or 50 lots;
      (8)   All proposed lot and street right-of-way lines with approximate
dimensions, lot and block numbers, all easements, designation of any dedication
or reservations to be made, a notation of building setback lines and proposed
use of land if other than detached single-family residences. Typical cross-
section of proposed streets, vertical grades and proposed street names. The
street design shall incorporate the minimum design standards required by the
state’s Department of Transportation. Documentation of the Department of
Transportation’s review of the proposed street design shall accompany the
preliminary plat when presented to the Planning Board;
      (9)   The directional flow of all streams and drainage areas within the
subdivision and the approximate location of the 100-year flood hazard area and
floodway, where applicable;
      (10)   The location of proposed utilities (water, sewer, drainage, gas,
electric, telecommunications) showing the connection to existing systems, or
location plans for individual water supply, sewage disposal and/or drainage
facilities is required by this chapter, written verification from the
appropriate state or local official shall accompany the preliminary plat. These
utilities along with the active recreation area to be shown with separate with
lot lines and proposed street only;
      (11)   Proposed minimum building setback lines;
      (12)   Proposed parks, school sites or other public open spaces, if any;
      (13)   Site data:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract;
         (b)   Smallest lot size;
         (c)   Total number of lots; and
         (d)   Lineal feet of streets.
      (14)   Proposed drainage facilities, including the location of
drainageways, storm sewers, culverts and retaining ponds. All drainage
facilities located within a road right-of-way shall be designed to the
Department of Transportation’s minimum construction standards; and
      (15)   Riparian buffers are to be shown on the recorded plat, and the
area of a riparian buffer must count towards lot dimensional standards even if
the buffer is held as common area.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-3-1986; Ord. passed 8-5-1991)
§ 151.26 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION.
   (A)   The final plat shall constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time of submission. Approval of the final plat shall be subject to the
installation of the improvements designated in §
151.31 of this chapter or certified evidence from the town that said
improvements shall be installed in accordance with these regulations.
   (B)   The procedure for obtaining final plat approval is as follows:
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit to the Secretary of the Planning Board
within one year of the date of preliminary plat approval at least four black or
blueline prints of the final plat and a reproducible copy of the final plat on
linen or polyester film;
      (2)   The Planning Board shall check the final plat for conformance with
the approved preliminary plat, and with the requirements of these regulations.
The Planning Board shall notify the subdivider in writing of any non-compliance
with these regulations or any deviation from the approved preliminary plat;
      (3)   Before acting on the final plat, the Planning Board may request
reports from any person or agency directly affected by the proposed
development. Such reports shall certify compliance with or note deviations from
the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of these regulations;
      (4)   The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the final plat
within a period of 45 days from the time of its submission at its regularly
scheduled meeting. If approval is granted, such approval shall be noted in
writing by the Secretary of the Planning Board on original linen tracing. If
the Planning Board disapproves the final plat, the reasons for such action
shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting, transmitted by letter to the
subdivider or his or her agent, and reference shall be made to the specific
section or sections of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply;
      (5)   If the Planning Board fails to act on the final plat within the
time period as specified in division (B)(4) above, the subdivider or his or her
agent may seek approval of the final plat at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Town Council;
      (6)   Upon approval of the final plat by the Planning Board, the
secretary shall submit said plat with recommendations to the Town Council. The
Town Council shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 45 days from the
time of its receipt by the Town Clerk;
      (7)   Action of the Town Council shall be noted in writing on the
original linen tracing and on three prints of the final plat. One print shall
be returned to the subdivider, one print shall be filed with the Town Clerk and
two prints shall be returned to and become a permanent record of the Planning
Board; and
      (8)   The final plat shall be properly signed and executed as required
for recording by the Register of Deeds of the county within six months after
approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.27 FINAL PLAT RECORDING.
   Within six months after the final plat has been approved by the Town
Council, it shall have been recorded with the Register of Deeds of the county.
Should the six months time limit expire before the plat is recorded, it must be
re-submitted to the Secretary of the Planning Board for reprocessing. Upon
adoption of this chapter, the Register of Deeds shall not thereafter file or
record a plat of a subdivision located within the planning jurisdiction of this
chapter until said plat has been approved by the Town Council. Without the
approval of the legislative body, the filing or recording of the subdivision
plat shall be null and void. The Clerk of Superior Court of the county shall
not order or direct the recording of a plat where such recording would be in
conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.28 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall be drawn on linen with India ink at the same
scale and on the same sheet size as the preliminary plat and shall conform
substantially to the preliminary plat as approved.
   (B)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered surveyor or civil
engineer and shall show the following information:
      (1)   Name of owner of record;
      (2)   Name of subdivider, date, north point and graphic scale;
      (3)   Name and seal of registered surveyor or civil engineer;
      (4)   Name of municipality or county in which subdivision is located;
      (5)   Exact boundaries of the tract of land being subdivided shown with
bearings and distances;
      (6)   Names of owners of record of all adjoining land and all property
boundaries which intersect with the perimeter of the tract being divided;
      (7)   Streets and alleys, rights-of-way, percent of grades, street names;
      (8)   Rights-of-way or easement; location, widths and purposes;
      (9)   Lot lines and lot and block numbers;
      (10)   Minimum building setback lines;
      (11)   Parks, school sites or other public open spaces, if any;
      (12)   Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
the location, bearing and length of every street line, lot line, boundary line,
block line and building line, whether curved or straight, and including true
north point. This should include the radius, central angle, point of tangent,
tangent distance and arcs and chords of all curved streets and curved property
lines;
      (13)   All map lines shall be by horizontal (level) measurements;
      (14)   All dimensions should be to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and
angles to the nearest minute;
      (15)   Accurate description of the location of all monuments and markers;
      (16)   Riparian buffers are to be shown on the recorded plat, and the
area of a riparian buffer must count towards lot dimensional standards even if
the buffer is held as common area;
      (17)   Utility layouts:
         (a)   Water;
         (b)   Gas;
         (c)   Sanitary sewers;
         (d)   Storm drains;
         (e)   Telecommunications;
         (f)   Electric; and
         (g)   Active recreation area.
      (18)   Forms for final certifications. In addition to the certifications
required in G.S. § 47-30, the following certificates shall be lettered or
rubber stamped on the final plat in such a manner as to ensure that said
certificates will be legible on any prints made therefrom, or written
documentation accompany the final plat.
         (a)   Certificate of approval by the Planning Board.
 
I,                                                                            , Chairperson of the Banner Elk Planning Board hereby certify that the said
Board fully approved the final plat of the subdivision entitled                                                             , on the               day of
                           , 20         .
 
         (b)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
I (We),                                                     , hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property
shown and described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my (our) free consent, establish minimum
building lines and dedicate all streets, alleys, walks, parks, and other sites to public use as noted. Further, I (we) certify
the land as shown hereon is within the planning jurisdiction of the Town of Banner Elk.
 
         (c)   Utility documentation. Written documentation from the
appropriate local or state agencies certifying that the water supply and sewage
disposal systems installed or proposed for installation in the subdivision meet
the local and state requirements, and is hereby approved.
         (d)   Transportation documentation. If the proposed streets will be
dedicated to the Department of Transportation, written documentation from the
appropriate Department of Transportation official stipulating that the streets
and street drainage systems in the subdivision have been constructed to the
Department of Transportation’s minimum construction standards as defined in
this chapter. All other streets and street drainage systems shall be
constructed according to applicable State Department of Transportation minimum
construction standards as described in §
151.46 of this chapter, and said plans shall be approved a registered engineer.
         (e)   Certificate of approval for recording plat.
 
I certify that the final plat shown hereon complies with the Banner Elk Subdivision Regulations and is
approved by the Banner Elk Town Council for recording in the Avery County Register of Deeds Office.
 
                                                      
Mayor, Town of Banner Elk
 
Date:                                              
 
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-3-1986; Ord. passed 11-13-2000)
§ 151.29 PHASED DEVELOPMENTS.
   If a subdivider proposes that a subdivision be constructed in phases, the
following procedures shall apply.
   (A)   A master plan showing the entire proposed subdivision and the phases
of development, proposed density, street location, proposed type and location
of utilities, and proposed development timetable shall be submitted to the
Planning Board for approval.
   (B)   Each phase of development shall be preceded by submission and approval
of a preliminary plat as outlined in §
151.24 of this chapter unless such plat submission is waived by the Planning
Board. The master plan may be submitted prior to or simultaneously to
submission of the preliminary plan for the first phase of development.
   (C)   As each phase is completed, a final plan must be submitted and
approved for that phase as outlined in §
151.26 of this chapter.
   (D)   Approval of the master plan need not be renewed unless density
increases are proposed.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.30 PERMANENT REFERENCE POINTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, permanent reference points shall
have been placed in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Subdivision corner tie. At least one corner of the subdivision shall
be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible reference
marker. If a corner is within 2,000 feet of a U.S. Coast and Geodetic Station
of N.C. Grid System coordinated monument, then this corner shall be marked with
a monument so designated by computed X and Y coordinates which shall appear on
the map with a statement identifying this station or monument to an accuracy of
1:15000. When such a monument or station is not available, the tie shall be
made to some pertinent and readily recognizable land mark or identifiable
point, physical object or structure.
   (B)   Monuments. Within each block of a subdivision at least two monuments
designed and designated as control corners shall be installed. The surveyor
shall employ additional monuments, if and when required. All monuments shall be
constructed of concrete and shall be at least four inches in diameter or square
and not less than three feet in length. Each monument shall have imbedded in
its top or attached by a suitable means a metal plate of non-corrosive
materials and marked plainly with the point, the surveyor’s registration
number, the month and year it was installed and the word “monument” or “control
corner”. A monument shall be set at least 30 inches in the ground with at least
six inches exposed above the ground unless the requirement is impractical.
   (C)   Property markers. A steel or wrought iron pipe or the equivalent not
less than three-fourths inch in diameter and at least 30 inches in length shall
be set at all corners, except those located by monuments. A marker shall also
be set at a point of curve, point of intersection, property corner, point of
tangency and reference point unless a monument has already been placed at said
points. Additional markers shall be placed at other points as required.
   (D)   Accuracy. Land surveys within the town limits shall be at an accuracy
of at least 1:10,000 and beyond the town limits an accuracy of not less than 1:
7,500 is required.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.31 IMPROVEMENTS.
   Approval of the final plat shall be subject to the subdivider having
installed the improvements hereinafter designated or having guaranteed, to the
satisfaction of the town, the installation of said improvements.
   (A)   Street improvements. All streets designed and constructed under the
provisions of this chapter, including all drainage facilities associated with
said street construction, shall meet the minimum construction requirements of
the state’s Department of Transportation’s publication, Subdivision Roads,
Minimum Construction Standards, 7-1-1985, or as hereafter amended.
   (B)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks, if constructed, will be constructed within the
street right-of-way and installed in accordance with town specifications and
standards.
   (C)   Plant cover on slopes. All cut and fill banks exposed by grading shall
be planted with grass, legume, vine or other suitable material to prevent
erosion.
   (D)   Utilities. Storm sewers shall be designed by a registered engineer and
shall be approved by the town’s Planning Board. Sanitary sewers and water mains
shall be installed in accordance with town specifications and standards. Should
private water and sewerage systems be provided, such shall met the requirements
of the state’s Health Department. It is recommended that a percolation test be
made prior to the installation of private waste disposal facilities. All sewer
systems shall be designed by a registered engineer.
   (E)   Guarantee of improvements. Where the required improvements have not
been completed prior to the submission of the plat for final approval, the
approval of said plat shall be subject to the subdivider guaranteeing the
installation of the improvements within a period of time specified by the Town
Council:
      (1)   Filing a performance or surety bond in an amount to be determined
by the Town Council;
      (2)   Depositing or placing in escrow a certified check or cash in an
amount to be determined by the Town Council. Portions of the security deposit
may be released as work progresses; and
      (3)   Entering into an agreement with the Town Council guaranteeing the
completion of the required work, said agreement to be binding on subsequent
purchases of the property and to be recorded at the option of the town. The
agreement shall provide that satisfactory security be furnished guaranteeing
the completion of the necessary improvements before each section is developed.
   (F)   Erosion and sedimentation control. The preliminary plat shall be
accompanied by a written statement that any required soil erosion and
sedimentation control plan has been submitted to and approved by the state or
local agency having jurisdiction in accordance with The Rules and Regulations
for Erosion and Sediment Control, as adopted by the state’s Sedimentation
Commission, and as amended.
   (G)   Construction procedures. No construction or installation of the
improvements shall commence in a proposed subdivision until the preliminary
plat has been approved by the appropriate authorities. No building or other
permits shall be issued for erection of a structure on any lot of record at the
time of adoption of this chapter until all the requirements of this chapter
have been met. The subdivider, prior to commencing any work within the
subdivision, shall make arrangements with the administrator of this chapter to
provide for adequate inspection. The approving authorities having jurisdiction
or their representatives shall inspect and approve all completed work prior to
release of the sureties.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.45 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Conformity of existing maps or plans. The location and width of all
proposed streets shall be in conformity with official plans and maps of the
town and with existing or amended plans of the Planning Board of the town.
      (2)   Continuation of adjoining street systems. The proposed street
layout shall be coordinated with the street system of the surrounding area.
Where possible, existing principal streets shall be extended.
      (3)   Access to adjacent properties. Where it is desirable to provide for
street access to an adjoining property, proposed streets shall be extended by
dedication to the boundary of such property and a temporary turn-around shall
be provided.
      (4)   Private streets and reserve strips. There shall be no private
streets platted in any subdivision or within the subdivision jurisdiction of
the town, except as provided in §
151.46 of this chapter. Reserve strips shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Large tracts or parcels. Where land is subdivided into larger
parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to
allow for the opening of future streets and logical further re-subdivision.
      (6)   Lots. All lots shall front upon a public street. Double-frontage
lots shall be avoided unless no other design is practical.
      (7)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided to the rear of all lots used for
other than residential purposes. Alleys are prohibited in residential blocks
unless such are approved by the Planning Board. All dead-end alleys shall be
provided with a turnaround.
      (8)   Contour map. A contour or topographic map with a contour interval
no greater than five feet shall be provided.
      (9)   Street names. Proposed streets, which are obviously in alignment
with other existing and named streets, shall bear the assigned name of the
existing streets. In no case shall the name of proposed streets duplicate or be
phonetically similar to existing street names, irrespective of the use of the
suffix, street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place, court and the like.
      (10)   Environmental impact statements. Environmental impact statements
are required for all major development projects, beginning with ten acres or
more.
   (B)   Design standards. The following design standards shall be considered
minimum requirements.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
§ 151.46 STREETS.
   (A)   General. All streets located within the town’s subdivision
jurisdiction shall be dedicated to the public, except as provided in division
(A)(3) below, and shall meet the minimum design and construction requirements
as herein described; provided, however, that, a reduction of pavement width to
16 feet may be approved by the Planning Board and Town Council if the developer
will install a concrete gutter system and a storm drainage system. The Planning
Board and Council shall review and approve modifications to the said design
standards.
      (1)   Standards for streets within the town of banner elk and in any
subdivision using town water and/or sewer. All streets dedicated to public use
within the town’s jurisdiction which are located in subdivisions that use the
town’s water and/or sewer systems shall be designed, constructed and paved to
the state’s Department of Transportation’s standards as provided in the
publication, Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards, 5-1-1983, or
hereafter amended.
      (2)   Standards for streets when subdivisions do not use town water or
sewer. Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, all streets dedicated to
public use within the town’s jurisdiction which are located in subdivisions
that do not use the town’s water or sewer system shall be designed to meet the
minimum standards of the Department of Transportation for right-of-way width,
cross-section design, alignment and grade. A written maintenance agreement
sufficient for recording in the office of the Register of Deeds shall be
submitted with the final plat. Said maintenance agreement will provide for the
subdivider or a property owners’ association to maintain the street, drainage
facilities, and right-of-way until such times as the street is accepted for
maintenance by the state.
      (3)   Private streets. Private streets may be permitted in a Planned
Residential Development, Planned Residential-Craft District or a Planned
Commercial District in accordance with the provisions in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances. Private streets may also be approved when
all lots within a subdivision abut an existing private right-of-way; provided,
no new right-of-way is dedicated and the existing road cannot be feasibly
extended to other properties. When private streets are used, said streets shall
be designed to meet the minimum construction standards of the Department of
Transportation publication, Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards,
1-1-2000, or as hereafter amended, for right-of-way width, cross-section
design, alignment and grade. All private streets shall have a written
maintenance agreement sufficient for recording in the office of the Register of
Deeds. Said maintenance agreement will provide for the developer or property
owners’ association to perpetually own and maintain the streets, drainage
facilities and rights-of-way within the development and shall be submitted with
the final plat.
   (B)   Subdivision street disclosure statement. All streets shown on the
final plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6, and
designated as public shall be conclusively presumed on offer of dedication to
the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public, but are not accepted
into the town or state highway system, before lots are sold, a statement
explaining the status of the street and the required ownership and maintenance
agreements required herein shall be included with the final plat.
   (C)   Half-streets. The dedication of half-streets at the perimeter of a new
subdivision shall be prohibited, except when there exists a half-street in an
adjoining subdivision. Where an existing half-street exists in an adjoining
subdivision, the remaining half shall be provided by the proposed subdivision.
The proposed subdivision shall provide the amount of right-of-way required to
meet the state’s standards required in divisions (A) or (B) above.
   (D)   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the opinion of the Town
Council, it is necessary to provide street access to an adjoining property,
proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such
property and a temporary turn-around provided.
   (E)   Non-residential streets. The subdivider of a non-residential
subdivision shall provide streets in accordance with F-4 of the North Carolina
Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards, 7-1-1985, or as hereafter
amended.
   (F)   Design standards.
      (1)   The design of all streets and roads within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be in accordance with the standards and requirements of state’s
Department of Transportation’s Subdivision Roads.
      (2)   Minimum Construction Standards, 7-1-1985, or as hereafter amended,
the more stringent requirement shall be required.
         (a)   Intersections.
            1.   Subdivision streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other
street at an angle less than 60 degrees.
            2.   Property lines at intersections should be set so that the
distance from the edge of the pavement, of the street turnout, to the property
line will be at least as great as the distance from the edge of pavement to the
property line along the intersecting streets. This property line can be
established as a radius or as a sight triangle. Greater offsets from the edge
of pavement to the property lines will be required, if necessary, to provide
sight distance for the vehicle on the side street.
            3.   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless exception is
granted by the Division of Highways. Intersections which cannot be aligned
should be separated by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey centerlines.
            4.   Intersections with arterials, collectors and thoroughfares
shall be at least 1,000 feet from centerline to centerline, or more if required
by the state’s Department of Transportation.
         (b)   Cul-de-sacs. Permanent dead end streets should not exceed 500
feet in length unless necessitated by topography or property accessibility, and
in no case shall be permitted to be over 900 feet. Measurement shall be from
the point where the centerline of the dead end street intersects with the
center of a through street to the center of turnaround of the cul-de-sac, the
end of each cul-de-sac shall be not more than 500 to 900 feet from a through
street, measured as stated above. The distance from the edge of pavement of the
vehicular turnaround to the right-of-way line shall not be less than the
distance from the edge of pavement to right-of-way line on the street
approaching the turn-around. Cul-de-sacs should not be used to avoid connection
with an existing street or to avoid the extension of an important street,
unless exception is granted by the Town Council.
         (c)   Alleys.
            1.   Alleys shall be required to serve lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes; except that, the requirement may be waived where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access.
            2.   The width of an alley shall be at least 20 feet.
            3.   Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the dead
end as may be approved by the Town Council.
            4.   Sharp changes in alignment and grade shall be avoided.
   (G)   Thoroughfare plan. The provision of street and road rights-of-way
shall conform to and meet the requirements of the town’s thoroughfare plan as
adopted by the Town Council and the state’s Board of Transportation.
   (H)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Street names. Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment
with existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in the county
irrespective to the use of a suffix such as street, road, drive, place, court
and the like. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Town
Council.
      (2)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall be required to provide and
erect street name signs in accordance with the requirements of the Subdivision
of Roads, Minimum Construction Standards, 7-1-1985, or as hereafter amended, at
all intersections within the subdivision.
      (3)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is
required for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is
required prior to any construction on the street or road. This application is
available at the office of the district engineer of the Division of Highways.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-3-1986; Ord. passed 11-4-1991; Ord. passed 3-1-
1993; Ord. passed 11-13-2000)
§ 151.47 LOTS.
   The lot size, width, depth, shape, orientation and building setback lines
shall be reasonable for the location of the subdivision and for the type of
development and use contemplated and shall be sufficient to accommodate
proposed utilities.
   (A)   Single-family residential lots. Any lot(s) within a subdivision or
within the town’s subdivision jurisdiction, intended for the development of a
detached, single-family dwelling unit(s) shall comply with the minimum lot
size, depth, width, street frontage and yard setbacks of the applicable
district requirements of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Multi-family residential lots. Each lot intended for the development
of more than one dwelling unit shall conform with
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances. If the lot(s) is not served by the public
water and sewer, written approval of the lot’s adequacy for the proposed
development must be obtained from the county’s Health Department.
   (C)   Lots for other than residential use. The appropriate provisions in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances shall apply in the case of development of
all non-residential property. If the lot(s) is not served by public water and
sewer, written approval of the lot’s adequacy for the proposed development must
be obtained from the county’s Health Department.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.48 EASEMENTS.
   Utility and other easements shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   Utility easements centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided
where deemed necessary by the town’s Planning Board and shall be at least ten
feet in width.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by watercourse, drainage way, channel
or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-
way conforming substantially with the line of such watercourse, and such
further width or construction, or both, as may be adequate for the purpose.
Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
   (C)   Lakes, ponds, creeks and similar areas within the town will be
accepted for maintenance only if such acceptance is recommended by the Planning
Board and approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.49 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   Pursuant to the requirements and guidelines of the National Environmental
Protection Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4321 et seq., the Council on Environmental
Protection Act, the Council on Environmental Quality, the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development and the State Environmental Policy Act, the
following is a summary of environmental considerations regarding this chapter.
   (A)   Abstract. The subdivision regulations will constitute a town
ordinance, setting forth provisions that will aid in bringing orderly
development. These regulations apply to the future subdivision of land within
the town’s planning jurisdiction as authorized by the general statutes of the
state, included are provisions for the orderly layout of streets; for property
identifying, monumenting and recording real estate; for ensuring that adequate
improvements are installed in new subdivision; and the establishment of a plat
review and approval process.
   (B)   Environmental impact. These regulations, if adopted and adequately
enforced, will have a favorable impact on the environment because of more
efficient use of land, sewage collection and disposal requirements and soil
erosion control requirements.
   (C)   Adverse environmental effects which cannot be avoided. The subdivision
regulations will not create any adverse environmental effects.
   (D)   Alternatives. Three other alternatives exist: no ordinance, a less
restrictive subdivision ordinance and a more restrictive ordinance. The first
two alternatives would not produce satisfactory development controls. The third
alternative would excessively retard development.
   (E)   The relationship between local short-term uses of man’s environmental
and maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity. The subdivision
regulations require street and lot design compatible with land characteristics.
A short-term consideration is that families will enjoy more pleasurable
residential developments while at the same time protecting long-term
productivity considerations embracing soils, vegetation and the unique
mountainous topography.
   (F)   Irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources. These
subdivision regulations will not commit resources, but rather help direct the
commitment of resources in a consistent manner.
   (G)   Applicable federal and state environmental controls. Federal controls
include the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4321
et seq. State legislation includes the state’s Environmental Policy Act of 1971
(G.S. Ch. 113A).
   (H)   Mitigation measures proposed to minimize impact. One of the primary
purposes of subdivision regulations is to minimize the impact of development on
the natural environment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties as set forth in G.S. § 160D-807 shall prevail. Any person,
being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the planning
jurisdiction granted to the municipality (G.S. § 160D-201), who thereafter
transfers or sells such land by reference to a plat showing a subdivision of
such land before such plat has been approved by said legislative body and
recorded in the office of the appropriate Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of
transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall
not exempt the transaction from such penalties. Said municipality, through its
Town Attorney or other official designate by its local legislative board, may
enjoin such transfer or sale by action for injunction. Such transactions are
also subject to the penalties as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Authority and enactment clause
   
152.002   Short title
   
152.003   Jurisdiction
   
152.004   Severability
   
152.005   Conflicting regulations
   
152.006   Transitional provisions
   
152.007   Completion of development plans
   
152.008   Time limit on permits and applications
   
152.009   Conflict of interest
   
152.010   Definitions
Application of Regulations
   
152.020   Use
   
152.021   Height and density
   
152.022   Lot size
   
152.023   Yard use limitations
   
152.024   Only one principal building or principal use on any lot
   
152.025   Required road access
   
152.026   Establishment of zoning districts and boundaries
   
152.027   Intent
   
152.028   Uses by district
   
152.029   Setback provisions
   
152.030   Land disturbing activities involving steep slopes
   
152.031   Procedures for review of plans and applications
   
152.032   Active recreation area requirements
   
152.033   Storm water management
   
152.034   Wellhead protection overlay district/wellhead protection plan
   
152.035   Mobile food trucks
Alternative Energy Resources
   
152.050   Intent
   
152.051   Definitions
   
152.052   Application requirements
   
152.053   Accessory solar energy collection systems, small scale
   
152.054   Accessory solar energy collection system, utility scale (production
for resale)
   
152.055   Accessory wind energy conversion systems, small scale
   
152.056   Accessory wind energy conversion systems; utility scale
   
152.057   Completion and decommissioning
Parking and Loading Regulations
   
152.070   Parking and loading regulations
   
152.071   Off-street parking required
   
152.072   Dimensions and design criteria
   
152.073   Off-street loading and unloading space required
Architectural Design Standards
   
152.085   Architectural design standards
   
152.086   Site aspects
   
152.087   Lighting trespass
   
152.088   Building design
   
152.089   Heritage District Overlay supplemental regulations
   
152.090   Viewshed development guidelines
Signs
   
152.105   Signs
   
152.106   Definitions
   
152.107   Applicability and regulatory purposes
   
152.108   Measurement of sign area and height
   
152.109   Permit required
   
152.110   Design, construction and maintenance
   
152.111   Prohibited signs
   
152.112   Exempt signs
   
152.113   Standards for permanent and temporary signs requiring a permit
   
152.114   Community events advertisements
   
152.115   Non-conforming signs
   
152.116   Sandwich board signs
   
152.117   Political signs
   
152.118   Violations
Landscaping and Sidewalks
   
152.130   Purpose
   
152.131   Applicability
   
152.132   Street yard
   
152.133   Parking lot yard
   
152.134   Buffer yards
   
152.135   Non-conforming parking lots
   
152.136   Location and screening of dumpsters and outdoor storage
   
152.137   Sidewalks
Tree Preservation
   
152.150   Purpose and definitions
   
152.151   Administration
   
152.152   Creation of town’s Tree Board
   
152.153   Registration of private property tree cutters
   
152.154   Permitting
   
152.155   Inspection of sites
   
152.156   Enforcement
   
152.157   Exemptions
   
152.158   Diseased or damaged trees
   
152.159   Damage to trees without a permit prohibited
   
152.160   Clear cutting prohibited
   
152.161   Replacement
   
152.162   New plant material
   
152.163   Trimming, pruning, planting and removal of trees and shrubbery
   
152.164   Injuring trees and shrubbery
   
152.165   Planting plan required
   
152.166   Trees and shrubbery to be kept trimmed; responsibility of owner
   
152.167   Removal of regulated or historical trees
   
152.168   Utility responsibility
   
152.169   Unsafe trees
   
152.170   Tree Preservation Overlay Map
Exceptions and Modifications
   
152.185   Compliance required
   
152.186   Gasoline service or filling stations
   
152.187   Manufactured/mobile buildings and manufactured homes
   
152.188   Subdivisions in planned developments
   
152.189   Cluster subdivisions
   
152.190   Home occupations
Special Use Standards
   
152.205   General
   
152.206   Automobile wrecking, junk and salvage yards
   
152.207   Commercial campgrounds
   
152.208   Manufacturing and processing operations
   
152.209   Manufactured home parks
   
152.210   Planned commercial development
   
152.211   Planned residential-craft development
   
152.212   Planned residential development
   
152.213   Public utility buildings and facilities
   
152.214   Radio and television transmitting stations and studios
   
152.215   Residential dwellings as an accessory use
   
152.216   Bed and breakfast homes and bed and breakfast inns
   
152.217   Resort commercial developments
   
152.218   Manufactured/mobile/modular buildings as administrative office/
classroom space
   
152.219   Material recovery sites
   
152.220   Tourist courts
   
152.221   Sexually oriented businesses
   
152.222   Bed and breakfast village
   
152.223   Miniature golf courses
   
152.224   Conditional Use District (CUD)
   
152.225   Incubators
   
152.226   Breweries, distilleries, wineries
   
152.227   Telecommunication structure
   
152.228   Heliports
   
152.229   Recreational vehicle park
   
152.230   Livestock and poultry
   
152.231   Temporary portable storage containers
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.240   Intent
   
152.241   Administrative officer
   
152.242   Zoning permit
   
152.243   Certificate of compliance
   
152.244   Denial of certificate of compliance
   
152.245   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans,
permits and certificates of compliance
   
152.246   Maintenance and dedicated areas until acceptance by town or POA
Board of Adjustment
   
152.260   Establishment
   
152.261   Vacancies
   
152.262   Rights of all Board members
   
152.263   Rules of conduct
   
152.264   Board meetings
   
152.265   Cancellation of meetings
   
152.266   Quorum
   
152.267   Voting
   
152.268   Conduct of meeting
   
152.269   Powers and duties
   
152.270   Appeals and applications
Preserve America Commission
   
152.285   Proceedings of the Preserve America Commission
   
152.286   Historic District Overlay Review Committee
   
152.287   Duties
Planning Board
   
152.300   Proceedings of the Planning Board
   
152.301   Architectural Review Committee
   
152.302   Duties
   
152.303   Reasonable accommodations
Amendments
   
152.315   Amendments
   
152.316   Initiation of amendments
   
152.317   Application
   
152.318   Planning Board action
   
152.319   Public hearing
   
152.320   Protests
   
152.321   Decision
   
152.322   Fees for amendments
Non-Conforming Uses
   
152.335   Non-conforming uses
   
152.336   Non-conforming lots of record
Short-term Rental
   
152.350   Purpose
   
152.351   Definitions
   
152.352   Application process
   
152.353   Operation requirements
   
152.354   Miscellaneous requirements
   
152.355   Enforcement and review
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE.
   The Town Council, in pursuance with the authority granted by the state
statutes, particularly G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 87, and the authority vested in the
town by its 1911 Charter, as amended, hereby ordains and enacts into law the
following articles and sections.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 100)
§ 152.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Zoning Ordinance of the
Town of Banner Elk, North Carolina, and the Area Comprising its
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction”.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 101)
§ 152.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all land within the
corporate limits of the town and within the territory beyond such corporate
limits as now or hereafter fixed as the extraterritorial jurisdiction. The
extraterritorial jurisdiction boundary is established on a map entitled
“Official Zoning Map, Town of Banner Elk, North Carolina, and the Area
Comprising its Extraterritorial Jurisdiction”.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 102)
§ 152.004 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to
be unconstitutional or invalid such declaration shall not affect the validity
of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 103)
§ 152.005 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the town. It is not intended to interfere with or
abrogate or annul other rules, regulations or ordinances of the town, or any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if the
requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances of the town, or with
easements, covenants or agreements between parties, the more restrictive or
that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 104)
§ 152.006 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   Any violation of any previous ordinance of the town shall continue to be a
violation under this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties set forth at
the time of the violation, unless the use, development, construction or other
activity is clearly consistent with the express terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 105)
§ 152.007 COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Any building or development for which a permit was issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, may be completed in
conformance with the issued permit and other applicable permits and conditions.
   (B)   Any type of land development application which has been officially
filed with the appropriate town official prior to the effective date of this
chapter or any amendment thereto; may continue to be processed under the land
use rules and regulations in effect prior to said date. The application process
must be complete within one year of said date. If the application process is
not completed within the specified time, then the application process may be
completed only in strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 106)
§ 152.008 TIME LIMIT ON PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS.
   Any permit or approval shall be good for two years from the date it was
issued. In extenuating circumstances where the use cannot commence, the time
limit may be extended by reapplication and approval by the Planning Board. A
time limit exception exists for developments which have earned a vested right.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 107)
§ 152.009 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Members of appointed boards shall not vote on advisory or legislative
decisions regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D,
Chapter 1-9(b) where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonable
likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member. An appointed Board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment
of the landowner of the property subject to the rezoning petition or the
applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. For the purpose of
this section, a close familial relationship means a spouse, parent, child,
brother, sister, grandparent, or grandchild. The term includes step, half, and
in-law relationships.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 108)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   In this chapter, words used in the present tense include the future
tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular. The word “shall” is always mandatory. The word
“lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel.” The word “building” includes the
word “structure.” The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust company or corporation, as well as an individual. The word
“used” or “occupied”, as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to
include the words intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied. The
word “map”, “zoning map” or “Banner Elk Zoning Map” shall mean the “Official
Zoning Map of the Town of Banner Elk, North Carolina, and the Area Comprising
its Extraterritorial Jurisdiction”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING. A dwelling unit that is accessory, supplementary and
secondary to the principal dwelling unit that may be constructed as an addition
to the principal structure or as an accessory to the principal structure. An
ACCESSORY DWELLING is detached from the principal dwelling unit.
      ACCESSORY, BUILDING. A subordinate building detached from, but located on
the same lot as the principal building, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal building.
      ACCOMMODATION. A room or a portion of a room within a building intended
to be rented as a unit or a portion of a unit for temporary lodging. A room or
a partitioned sleeping area designed or intended to sleep up to three persons
shall constitute one accommodation or lodging unit. When sleeping areas are
designed or intended to sleep more than three persons, an ACCOMMODATION shall
be considered a sleeping room or area for each three persons, or fraction
thereof. There shall be a minimum of 60 square feet of gross floor area in each
bedroom or sleeping area for each intended occupant, exclusive of bathrooms,
closets or hallways.
      ACTIVE RECREATION AREA. Open Space improved with facilities for active
recreation, such as a playground, a park, a picnic area and the like.
      ADDITION. An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building
or structure.
      ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, and enforcement of development regulations that involves the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set for in
G.S. § 160-1-2 or local government development regulations. These are sometimes
referred to as “ministerial” decisions or “administrative determinations”.
      ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The officer charged with the authority and duty to
administer this chapter.
      AGRICULTURAL USES, OTHER. Include the production and activities related
or incidental to the production of crops, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and
flowering plants, dairy, livestock, poultry, and all other forms of
agricultural products as defined in G.S. § 106-581.1.
      ANCHOR BUSINESS. An anchor business is a tenant with an established
business that would assist in drawing individuals and shoppers to the
incubator.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the Administrator’s interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a determination that there is
error in an order, requirement or decision made by the Administrator pursuant
to this chapter.
      APPLICANT. Any person or his or her duly authorized representative who
submits an application, as defined herein.
      APPLICATION. A request for approval for any subdivision plat, site plan,
master land use plan, site specific development plan, special use permit,
rezoning, conditional use district, sign or zoning compliance permit.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES. An assisted living residence in which hands-
on personal care services and nursing services which are arranged by housing
management are provided by a licensed home care or hospice agency, through an
individualized written care plan. The housing management has a financial
interest or financial affiliation or formal written agreement which makes
personal care services accessible and available through at least one licensed
home care or hospice agency. The resident has the choice of any provider, and
the housing management may not be combine charges for housing and personal care
services. All residents, or their compensatory agents, through informed
consent, of entering into a contract and must not be in need of 24-hour
supervision. Assistance with self- administration of medications may be
provided by appropriately trained staff when delegated by a licensed nurse
according to the home care agency’s established plan of care. Multi-unit
assisted housing with services programs are required to register with the
Division of Health Service Regulation and to provide a disclosure statement.
The disclosure statement is required to be part of the annual rental contract
that includes a description of the following requirements: emergency response
system; charges for services offered; limitation of services; limitation of
tenancy; resident responsibilities; financial/legal relationship between
housing management and home care or hospice agencies; a listing of all home
care or hospice agencies and other community services in the area; an appeal
process; and a procedure for required initial and annual resident screening and
referrals for services.
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM), WALK-UP. A computer-controlled terminal
associated with a financial institution, not accessible by motorized vehicle,
through which a customer may make deposits, withdrawals or other transactions.
Other terms sometimes used to describe such terminals are CUSTOMER-BANK
COMMUNICATION TERMINAL (CBCT) and REMOTE SERVICE UNIT (RSU).
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM), DRIVE-UP. A computer-controlled terminal
associated with a financial institution, accessible by motorized vehicle,
through which a customer may make deposits, withdrawals or other transactions.
Other terms sometimes used to describe such terminals are CUSTOMER-BANK
COMMUNICATION TERMINAL (CBCT) and REMOTE SERVICE UNIT (RSU).
      AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. The repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor
vehicles or parts thereof, including collision service, painting and steam
cleaning vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING, JUNK AND SALVAGE YARDS. An enclosed area that stores
wrecked motor vehicles or parts to motor vehicles that are collected, stored,
salvaged or sold.
      BARBER SHOP/BEAUTY SHOP/SALON. An establishment that provides services
generally involving the cutting and styling of hair, and including customary
accessory uses such as manicure work, facial treatment, the sale and fitting of
wigs, the sale of hair treatment products and spa treatments.
      BED AND BREAKFAST HOME. A private home offering bed and breakfast to
eight or less persons per night for a period of less than a week.
      BED AND BREAKFAST HOME/VILLAGE. A private home with up to three auxiliary
cottages offering bed and breakfast to 16 or less persons per night for a
period of less than a week.
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A residential building which may include one
accessory building that contains not more than 12 guest rooms that offers bed
and breakfast accommodations to at least nine, but not more than 20, persons
per night for a period of less than one week; provided that, the business:
         (a)   Does not serve food or drink to the public for pay;
         (b)   Serves only the breakfast meal, and that meal is served only to
overnight guests of the business;
         (c)   Includes the price of breakfast in the room rate; and
         (d)   The owner or manager shall permanently reside in the business
complex or premises.
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN/VILLAGE. A residential building which may include
one accessory building and up to three auxiliary cottages that contains not
more than 12 guest rooms that offers bed and breakfast accommodations to at
least nine, but not more than 30, persons per night for a period of less than
one week; provided that, the business:
         (a)   Does not serve food or drink to the public for pay;
         (b)   Serves only the breakfast meal, and that meal is served only to
overnight guests of the business;
         (c)   Includes the price of breakfast in the room rate; and
         (d)   The owner or manager shall permanently reside in the business
complex or premises.
      BEVERAGE SHOP. A place of business such as a coffee shop, soda shop or
juice bar that serves beverages, and where seating is provided for the
consumption of said beverages.
      BICYCLE SALES AND REPAIR. A place of business that will sell and or
repair bicycles. A “bicycle” is defined as any light framed form of conveyance
consisting of wheels, a seat, handlebars and brakes which is not powered by a
gasoline motor, but may include e-bikes.
      BONAFIDE FARM PURPOSES. Agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. §
160D-9-3.
      BREWERY. An establishment primarily engaged in the wholesale production
and distribution of beer, ale, porter and other fermented malt beverages. Areas
for demonstration, education or tasting are included in this definition and are
incidental to the primary use of producing beverages in accordance with state
ABC permits.
      BREWPUB. A combination of brewery and restaurant that serves food while
brewing beer on premises and selling one-fourth of its brew to patrons.
      BUFFER YARD. A planting yard that serves as a visual separation between
uses and should be densely planted.
      BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or property of any kind, including sheds, carports, garages,
guest cottages and other outbuildings, and also including any extension or
extrusion of the building such as balconies, decks and porches.
      BUILDING, CUSTOMARY ACCESSORY. A detached building subordinate to the
main building on a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main
or principal building and located on the same lot therewith.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal uses
of the lot on which said building is located.
      BUSINESS - CONVENIENCE. Commercial establishments that generally serve
day-to-day needs of a residential neighborhood, including drugstores, tobacco
shops, newsstands, bakeries, confectionaries, delicatessens, meat and produce
markets, food stores with less than 8,000 square feet in floor area. May be
combined with the sale of gas and petroleum products.
      BUSINESS - GENERAL. Commercial establishments that, in addition to
serving day-to-day commercial needs of a community, also supply the more
durable and permanent needs of a whole community, including supermarkets,
department stores, discount stores, variety stores, hardware and garden supply
stores, apparel and footwear stores, florists, gift shops, jewelry stores, book
and stationary stores, specialty shops, sporting goods stores, furniture and
home furnishing stores, automotive supply stores and appliance stores.
      BUSINESS SERVICES. Any profit-making activity that renders services
primarily to other commercial or industrial enterprises, or which services and
repairs appliances and/or machines in homes and businesses.
      CANOPY. A structure constructed of rigid material, including, but not
limited to, metal, wood, concrete, plastic or glass, which is attached to and
supported by a building or by columns, poles or braces.
      CHARTER. As defined in G.S. § 160A-1(2).
      CITY. As defined in G.S. § 160A-1(2).
      COMMERCIAL CAMPGROUNDS. A minimum of a three-acre parcel of real estate
located in the R-1 and R-C where tents and pop-up campers are used by visitors
to the town with a maximum length of stay being no more than ten days in any
30-day period and requiring a special use permit as provided in §
152.207 of this chapter.
      COMMUNITY EVENT. An event within the town or the ETJ staged for the local
community which centers on some unique aspect of the community. The event shall
be open to al citizenry of the town and its planning jurisdiction and provides
significant economic benefit to the town as a whole, portraying or placing the
town in a positive light.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan, land use plan, small area
plans, neighborhood plans, transportation plans, capital improvement plans, and
any other plans regarding land use and development that have been officially
adopted by the governing board.
      CONDITIONAL ZONING. A legislative zoning map amendment with site-specific
conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
      COUNTY. Any of the counties listed in G.S. § 153A-10.
      CRAFT BREWER/BREWERY. A production facility that produce at least
2,000,000 U.S. barrels per year. This use would only be located in an
industrial zoning jurisdiction.
      CUSTOMARY INCIDENTAL HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted entirely within
a dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and does not change the character thereof, and in connection with which there
are no retail sales or display on the premises and no person not a resident on
the premises is employed specifically in connection with the activity; except
that, not more than one assistant may be employed by the following HOME
OCCUPATIONS: lawyer; physician; dentist; osteopath and chiropractor; provided
further that, no mechanical equipment is installed or used, except such as is
normally used for domestic or professional purposes, and that not over 25% of
the total floor space of any structure is used for HOME OCCUPATIONS.
      DECISION MAKING BOARD. A governing board, Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment, Historic District Board, Tree Board, or other board assigned to
make quasi-judicial decisions under this chapter.
      DETERMINATION. A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision.
      DEVELOPER. A person, including a government agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
      DEVELOPMENT. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term
means:
         (a)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure;
         (b)   Excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land;
         (c)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. § 160D-8-2; or
         (d)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of the use of land.
      DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to this chapter that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or
development proposal. DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits, variances, and
certificate of appropriateness. The term also includes all other regulatory
approvals required by regulations adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1-2 including
plat approvals, permits issued, development agreements entered into, and
building permits issued.
      DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A unified development ordinance, zoning
regulation, subdivision regulations, erosion and sedimentation control
regulation, floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation, mountain ridge
protection regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless
telecommunication facility regulation, historic preservation or landmark
regulation, housing code, State Building Code enforcement or any other
regulation adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1-2 or a local act or charter that
regulates land use development.
      DISTILLERY.
         (a)   This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one
or more of the following:
            1.   Distilling potable liquors (except brandies);
            2.   Distilling and blending liquors; and
            3.   Blending and mixing liquors and other ingredients.
         (b)   The process will be limited to: manufacturing; production;
distillation; packaging and distribution of spirituous liquor. Because
spirituous liquor is the end product, DISTILLERY would not include industrial
distilleries, such as for the production of ethanol for use as a fuel.
      DISTRESSED BUSINESS. Businesses who have been competing in a commercial
environment for longer than one year and are unable to illustrate any signs of
profit or growth, or can prove that they are in a position to lose their
business entirely. The Admissions Committee of the incubator shall determine
the validity of proof.
      DORMITORY, COLLEGE AND INSTITUTIONAL. A building used as living quarters
for members of a student body; an accessory use for colleges, boarding schools,
orphanages or other similar institutions.
      DOUBLE-WIDE MANUFACTURED HOME/BUILDING. A double-wide mobile unit is two
or more separate mobile homes or buildings which are designed to be connected
on a site to form a single structure for one or more housing or non-residential
uses. The exterior dimensions of the double-wide mobile unit when assembled for
use shall be not less than 32 feet by 24 feet. The structure shall be placed on
a permanent, enclosed, masonry foundation, with the wheels and pulling tongue
removed.
      DRIVEWAY. A private access to one or two proposed or recorded lots. A
DRIVEWAY may be a paved or unpaved, platted or described by metes and bounds,
or may be otherwise described or shown as an easement or right-of-way. Any
drive, access, road, easement or right-of-way or proposed to serve more than
two lots shall be defined as a public or private street.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outbuildings and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith, except that for the purposes of §§
152.315 through
152.322, that does not include manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational
vehicle, if used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
two or more families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied
by one family.
      EMERGENCY AND CIVIL SERVICES. Organizations that ensure public safety and
health by addressing different emergencies. Some of these agencies exist solely
for addressing certain types of emergencies while others deal with ad hoc
emergencies as part of their normal responsibilities. Many of these agencies
engage in community awareness and prevention programs to help the public avoid,
detect and report emergencies effectively. There are three main EMERGENCY
SERVICES: Police; Fire Department; and Emergency Medical Services. A few CIVIL
SERVICE examples would be: Public Utilities; Social Services; Disaster Relief;
Animal Control; and Forestry Service.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A plan that is designed to minimize
the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during construction
activities.
      EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence to make a finding for a quasi-judicial decision required
by a development regulation in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 160D-
406.
      EXACTION. A condition placed upon a development approval for the private
developer to provide to the public some property, improvement, or fee to
address the community impacts of the property.
      EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The area officially defined as the
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits of the town and defined on the
official zoning map, subject to the zoning laws to the town.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying the premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, but not including a group occupying a lodging house, club,
fraternity house or similar type dwelling.
      FAMILY CARE HOME. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care, and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident persons with disabilities.
(G.S. § 160D-907)
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. An establishment where gasoline and other
petroleum products are sold as a principal use of the property. Light
maintenance activities such as engine tune-ups, lubrication and minor repairs
may also be provided if incidental to such a principal use. Service stations do
not include premises where heavy automobile maintenance activities such as
engine overhauls, automobile painting, and bodywork are conducted. May or may
not be combined with a convenience store.
      GEOLOGICAL HAZARD INDICATORS. A condition or series of conditions from
which a reasonable inference may be drawn that a particular tract of land may
have qualities of instability or danger which require further investigation and
possible remediation. Such indicators may include, but are not limited to, one
or more of the following: fault zone cataclasite (broken) rocks; pre-existing
landslide deposits or indicators; day lighting; foliations or zones of likely
debris flow deposits; properties along a fault line; rock fall areas; or areas
with exposure to radon gas or arsenic in the water.
      GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. A North Carolina licensed engineer that has
documented experience of at least five years in the proactive field of
geotechnical engineering.
      GOVERNING BOARD. The Town Council for the Town of Banner Elk. The term is
interchangeable with Town Council.
      GREENWAY. A corridor of open protected space, usually located adjacent to
natural features; that is managed for conservation and/or recreational
purposes.
      HALFWAY HOUSE. A home of not more than the number of persons a bed can be
provided for who have demonstrated a tendency towards alcoholism, drug abuse,
mental illness or antisocial or criminal conduct, together with not more than
two persons providing supervision and other services to such persons, a total
of whom live together as a single housekeeping unit.
      HEIGHT LIMITATION, BUILDING. The vertical distance from the mean
elevation of the finished grade along the highest ridge of the building. The
calculation for the maximum height allowed for any structure located under the
footprint of a building is 35 feet and is measured by delineating the smallest
rectangle which can enclose the building footprint and averaging the elevations
taken at the midpoint of each side of the rectangle as indicated in a drawing.
      HISTORICAL MARKER. A display of lettering, words, symbols, emblems,
objects, pictures or any combination thereof used to distinguish or honor the
historic significance or its historic association with events or person(s) from
the past subject to the approval of the historical content by the Historical
Preservation Committee.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation, profession or activity that is
customary, incidental and secondary use of a residential unit carried on by a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
      HOTEL. A building used as temporary, a period of less than four
consecutive months, lodging for compensation and consisting of more than ten
accommodations. All accommodations shall have primary access from a common
entrance and associated lobby area. In addition to the principal building there
may be free-standing accommodations that are accessed separately, so long as
they are managed by the same hotel management company responsible for the
principal building. If meals and related services are offered to those lodging
in the HOTEL, then they shall also be offered to the general public in a
traditional restaurant setting; provided, necessary permits and licensures are
obtained from agencies responsible to assure public health, safety and welfare.
A component of this definition, HOTEL, shall include the potentiality of a
CONDOMINIUM HOTEL whereby less than all of the accommodations may be owned by
various entities which shall have the ability to place those accommodations
into a rental pool to be rented and managed by a hotel management company. For
accommodations in a CONDOMINIUM HOTEL, there is no prescribed length of stay by
a patron or owner provided that a majority of the accommodations are available
for rental for at least six months in a calendar year in the hotel rental pool.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that impedes the natural percolation of
water into the soil. Types of impervious materials are roofs, solid decks and
patios, sidewalks, driveways, roads, parking areas, concrete, asphalt, brick,
compacted gravel.
      INCUBATOR. Incubators are programs designed to accelerate and nurture
entrepreneurs in the start-up of a business by providing hands-on management
assistance, access to financial sources and exposure to critical business or
technical services, sharing of certain support services, as well as various
educational opportunities for developing businesses.
      INVENTORY. Merchandise that a vendor has on hand for sale.
      JUNK YARD. A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for
the collecting, storing and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or discarded
material; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and/or salvaging of
machinery or vehicles not in operating condition, and for the sale of parts
thereof.
      LANDOWNER or OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent
evidence to the contrary, a local government may rely on the county tax records
to determine who the LANDOWNER is. The LANDOWNER may authorize a person holding
a valid option, lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or
representative for the purposes of making application for development
approvals.
      LEGISLATIVE DECISION. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation
under G.S. § 160D-1-2 of an applicable local act. It also includes the decision
to approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement consistent with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 10.
      LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
      LIVESTOCK. Any species of cattle or bovines, horses, or other equines,
ponies, donkeys, mules, sheep, goats, llamas, alpacas, or other animal weighing
more than 200 pounds. LIVESTOCK shall not include any species of hog, pig,
swine, or other similar animal, nor shall livestock include any species of
domesticate canine or feline.
      LOCAL ACT. As defined in G.S. § 160A-1(5).
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A municipality or county of the State of North
Carolina.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building
or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The average distance between front and rear lot lines.
      LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance between the side lot lines measured at the
building line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      MANUFACTURED BUILDING. A building mass-produced in a factory, either
independent or a module for combination with other elements to form a building
on site, and designed and constructed for transportation to a site for
installation and use when connected to required utilities.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, used or intended to be used as a dwelling
unit, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is
eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when
erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, including the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
MANUFACTURED HOME includes any structure that meets all of the requirements of
this definition, except the size requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the
standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. (source: The Uniform
Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, G.S. § 143-145). For purposes of
this chapter, a MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a structure which otherwise
complies with this definition, but which was built prior to 6-15-1976, which
units shall be classified as “mobile homes”. A MANUFACTURED HOME shall not be
construed to be a travel trailer or other form of recreation vehicle; it shall
not be used for storage or other unoccupied use.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any premises where manufactured homes are parked
for living and sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for the
purpose of supplying to the public parking space for manufactured homes for
living and sleeping purposes, and which include any buildings, structures,
vehicles or enclosure used or intended for use as part of such mobile home
park. Such areas, lot, parcel or tract is held in common ownership, and
individual portions of said area, lot, parcel or tract are leased for the
placement of manufactured homes as a primary residence.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SITE. A plot of ground within a manufactured home park
designated for the accommodation and use of one single-wide manufactured home
and containing all improvements and utility connections required under this
chapter and other applicable chapters of the town code.
      MANUFACTURING AND PROCESSING OPERATIONS. An operation that manufactures,
processes, creates, renovates, paints, cleans, assembles merchandise, goods or
equipment, or other industrial uses that have all operations and storage within
enclosed structures.
      MASTER SITE PLAN. A site plan that displays the entire tract to be
developed including all boundaries, existing and proposed structures, bodies of
water, topographic features, streets and roads, driveways, utilities, storm
water drain systems, walkways, landscaping, open space, forested/wooded areas
and all intended uses of the property.
      MATERIAL RECOVERY SITE. Is a specialized plant that receives, separates
and prepares recyclable materials for marketing to end-user manufacturers.
      MEMORIAL GARDEN. A prepared place for reflection, with no remains.
      MENU SIGNS. A sign that contains the name of the restaurant and the menu
items offered. The sign may be fixed or changeable copy.
      MICROBREWERY. A small establishment primarily engaged in the wholesale
production and distribution of beer, ale, porter and other fermented malt
beverages. Areas for demonstration, education or tasting are included in this
definition and are incidental to the primary use of producing beverages in
accordance with state ABC permits. A MICROBREWERY produces less than 15,000
U.S. barrels (460,000 U.S. gallons) per year with 75% of its product sold
outside the facility. It may have a tasting room and retail space for selling
some beer to patrons of the site. MICROBREWERIES usually concentrate on exotic
or high quality beer.
      MINIATURE GOLF COURSE. A small scale version of a regulation golf course
played with golf balls and putters on a course featuring obstacles created by
changes in the terrain or features using natural materials such as water, rocks
and vegetation.
      MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT. Any combination of uses allowed as either
permitted or special in the MU zoning category that compliment each other with
one or more buildings on parcels of land that are substantially contiguous.
      MOBILE BUILDING. A manufactured building constructed on a chassis and
used for non-residential purposes. A MOBILE BUILDING shall be construed to
remain a mobile building subject to all regulations applying thereto, whether
or not wheels, axles, hitch or other appurtenances of mobility are removed and
regardless of the nature of the foundation provided.
      MOBILE SALES AND RENTALS. The enabling of sales and rentals of commercial
goods without a permanent structure. Merchandise does not include personally
owned merchandise such as yard sale items. A $25 permit fee and application is
required to cover a one-year period from the date of issuance. Parking must be
sufficient without taking away from existing establishments. Signage must meet
the ordinance while attached to the trailer or vehicle and sandwich board signs
are allowed. Merchandise and signage must be secured by close of business each
day.
      MODULAR BUILDING. A unit constructed in accordance with the standards set
forth in the state’s Building Code applicable to site built homes/or structures
and composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and
transported to the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation.
A MODULAR BUILDING may consist of one or more sections transported to the site
in a manner similar to a mobile home or manufactured home, or a series of
panels or room sections transported on a truck and erected or joined together
on the site.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings used as temporary lodging
facility for compensation for more than ten accommodations for a period of less
than two weeks. Meals may be offered to the overnight guests and the general
public.
      OPEN SPACE (OPEN SPACE AREA). Portions of a tract of real estate that are
not covered by impervious surfaces and are not in easements or rights-of-way as
further defined in §
152.190 of this chapter.
      OUTDOOR DISPLAY. The temporary placement of commercial materials
inventory, goods including, but not limited to, furniture, crafts, farm
implement sales and farmers markets that are outside the building. The display
area must be located and maintained by the people who own the property and are
displaying the goods. Such displays must be clearly incidental and subordinate
to the principal businesses.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. Storage of any materials, merchandise, products, lumber
and building supply materials, landscape materials, stock, supplies, machines,
operable and/or inoperable, vehicles, equipment, manufacturing materials or
chattels of any nature which are not kept in a structure having at least four
walls and a roof for more than 24 hours.
      PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than nine feet by 18 feet, plus the
necessary access space. PARKING SPACE(S) shall be provided with vehicular
access to a street or alley, and shall always be located outside the dedicated
street right-of-way, except for on-street parking permitted in downtown Banner
Elk.
      PARKING YARD. A planting yard comprised of a landscaped planting area to
be located within or adjacent to the parking area such as landscaped islands,
inside medians, between ten parking spaces and at the end of a parking bay.
      PEER TO PEER SALES. The decentralized sale of a product to an individual
or small group whose business model is consistent with a home occupation, as
defined in this chapter.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the state and its
agencies and political subdivisions, or other legal entity.
      PERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that allows the percolation of water into
the underlying soil. Types of pervious materials are grass, mulch, soil, sand,
silt, ground cover, planted areas, vegetated roots, permeable paving, porches
and decks that are erected on pier foundations, pavers in a grid or lattice
patterns, gravel consisting of loose aggregates of small-rounded water worn
stones.
      PHASED DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan which has been submitted to a city by a
landowner for phased development which shows the type and intensity of use for
a specific parcel or parcels with a lesser degree of certainty than the plan
determined by the city to be a site specific development plan.
      PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION JURISDICTION. The geographic area
defined in this section within which the town has undertaken planning action
and may apply the development regulations authorized by G.S. § 160D-1-2.
      PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned commercial development
incorporating more than one commercial use within one or more structures, which
are planned and developed as a unit on a compact and contiguous lot (or lots)
under single ownership or control. The development shall consist of two or more
principal commercial uses located in one or more principal structures and all
accessory buildings and uses. A PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT shall be
permitted as a special use in certain districts in accordance with the
provisions of §§
152.210 and
152.218 of this chapter.
      PLANNED RESIDENTIAL-CRAFTS DEVELOPMENT. A planned development
incorporating a single type or a variety of residential uses, craft shops and
customary accessory uses, which are planned and developed as a unit on a
compact and contiguous lot (or lots) under single ownership or control. The
development shall consist of at least two or more principal buildings and all
other accessory buildings and uses. A PLANNED RESIDENTIAL-CRAFT DEVELOPMENT
shall be permitted as a special use in certain districts in accordance with the
provisions of §§
152.211 and
152.218 of this chapter.
      PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned residential development
incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and accessory uses
which are planned and developed as a unit on a compact and contiguous lot (or
lots) under single ownership or control. A PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
shall consist of at least two or more principal buildings or a single building
with more than four dwelling units and all other necessary buildings and uses.
A PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT shall be permitted as a special use in
certain districts in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.212 and
152.218 of this chapter.
      PLANNING BOARD. The Town of Banner Elk Planning Board as established
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-3-1.
      PLANNING PROGRAM. The planning program consists of the following; the
Banner Elk Zoning Ordinance; the Official Zoning Map of the Town of Banner Elk;
the Banner Elk Subdivision Regulations; Banner Elk Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Ordinance; the Banner Elk Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance; the Town
of Banner Elk Flood Insurance Rate Maps; the Town of Banner Elk Pedestrian
Plan, 1992 ASU Planning Studies; the Architectural Review Guidelines (hereunto
incorporated within this chapter); and the Banner Elk Thoroughfare Plan.
      POULTRY. Includes chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, and any other
domesticated bird to be kept for meat, eggs, or feathers.
      PREMISES. A tract of real property in single ownership which is not
divided by a public street or public right-of-way.
      PROPERTY. All real property subject to land use regulation by a local
government and includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as
part of real property.
      PROPERTY OWNERS ASSOCIATION (POA). A legal entity to manage a community
of homes. The entity is given the authority to enforce the covenants,
restrictions and conditions and to manage the common entities of a development.
Other variations apply such as: home owners association (HOA); and condominium
owners association (COA).
      QR CODE. A machine-readable code consisting of an array of black and
white squares, typically used for storing URLs or other information for reading
by the camera on a smartphone. The use of QR Codes (Quick Response Codes) will
be allowed on a smooth flat surface, added to an existing sign or as an
attachment to an existing sign, to be no greater than four inches by four
inches.
      QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts
regarding a specific application of development regulation and that requires
the exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation.
QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS include but are not limited to decisions involving
variances, special use permits, certificate of appropriateness, and appeals of
administrative determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats
and site plans are quasi-judicial in nature if the regulation authorizes a
decision-making board to approve or deny the application based not only upon
whether the application complies with the specific requirements set forth in
the regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or trailer, often abbreviated as
RV, which includes living quarters designed for accommodation, including motor
homes, campervans, caravans, travel trailers, camper trailers, fifth-wheel
trailers, pop-up campers and truck campers.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A property used for the parking and use of
recreational vehicles.
      RESTAURANT (DINE IN). A place of business where food is prepared and
served and where seating is provided for the consumption of food.
      RETAIL FOOD BUSINESS OR RESTAURANT (CARRY-OUT/DELIVERY). A business such
as a bakery, delicatessen or take-out pizza establishment, which that prepares
and sells food, but does not provide seating for the consumption of food.
(Note: if seats are provided on the business premises for the consumption of
food, whether self-service or not, such business shall be considered a
restaurant.)
      RIDGE. The elongated crest or series of crests at the apex or uppermost
point of an intersection between two opposite slopes or sides of a mountain.
      RIDGELINE. A highest line formed between two slopes of land as shown on a
topographical map as prepared by a North Carolina licensed surveyor.
      ROOF. The exterior upper covering of a building or canopy attached to a
building. Any portion of a roof or exterior wall that extends from or beyond
the vertical wall of a structure at an angle of 15 degrees or more shall be
considered part of the ROOF.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building or group of buildings used for the temporary
lodging of residents, intended primarily for lease or rent for a period of more
than one week, with or without board.
      SECURITY AND WARNING SIGNS. On-premises signs which designate health or
safety warnings as required by law, and security signs which regulate the use
of the property such as “no trespassing”, “no hunting”, “no soliciting” or
provide other warnings of danger on the premises.
      SETBACK. The area located between a property line, the established edge
of a road right-of-way, or the edge of the traveled way, whichever is closer,
and the closest projection of a building including any eaves, dormer, deck or
other part attached thereto and any portion of a building located below grade.
No building shall be placed within the setback area, however, doors, windows,
marquees, canopies or fixed awnings shall be permitted to encroach.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business or enterprises that have as one
of their principle business purposes or as a significant portion of their
business an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing or related to
anatomical areas as specified in G.S. §
      SHARED PARKING. Parking that can be applied when land uses have different
parking demand patterns and are able to use the same parking spaces/areas
throughout the day. SHARED PARKING is most effective when these land uses have
significantly different peak parking and characteristics, that vary by time of
day, day of week and/or season of the year. In these situations, SHARED PARKING
STRATEGIES will result in fewer total parking spaces needed, when compared to
the total number of spaces needed for each land use or business separately.
      SIGN. A structure, or part thereof, displayed for the purpose of
conveying some information, knowledge or idea to the public.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, service
or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than on the premises, and
only incidentally on the premises, if at all.
      SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to the business, profession
or principal use conducted on the premises.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES DIRECTIONAL. A sign which provides directions to a
business, service or activity located on another property; provided that, such
sign shall be no larger than four square feet per sign face and not exceed four
feet in height. OFF-PREMISES DIRECTIONAL SIGNS shall be used only by
businesses, services or activities which are located in Banner Elk’s zoning
jurisdiction, and said locations do not have direct frontage from N.C. 184 and
N.C. 194, in accordance herewith.
      SIGN, DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. A directly illuminated sign is designed to
give forth artificial light directly (or through transparent or translucent
material) from a source of light within or on such sign.
      SIGN, DIRECTIONAL AND INFORMATION. A sign located on the premises of a
business or development which provides directions and information for vehicular
or pedestrian traffic. A DIRECTIONAL AND INFORMATION SIGN shall not display the
name, logo or products of the on premise business. Entrance, exit and parking
regulating signs one square foot or less in area per side shall be exempt from
regulation; provided, such signs are non-illuminated, less than four feet in
height and are located out of the street right-of-way.
      SIGN, INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. An indirectly illuminated sign is designed
to have illumination from a remote light source so shielded that no direct rays
thereof are visible elsewhere than on the lot where said illumination occurs.
If such shielding device is inoperative, such sign shall be deemed to be a
directly illuminated sign.
      SIGN, NON-ILLUMINATED. A sign that is not illuminated, either directly or
indirectly.
      SIGN, ON-PREMISES. The lot or parcel upon which the principal building or
structure is directly located, for which sign is designated or intended to
advertise.
      SIGNS, PORTABLE. Any permanent or temporary sign which is affixed to or
placed in or upon any parked vehicle, trailer or other parked device designed
or capable of being towed or transported, the primary purpose of which is to
direct attention to a business commodity, or service, entertainment or other
activity.
      SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text
showing the relationship between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses,
buildings, or structures on the lot. The site plan may include, but is not
limited to, site-specific details such as building areas, building height and
floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street rights-of-way, intensities,
densities, utility lines and locations, parking access points, roads, and
stormwater control facilities, that are depicted to show compliance with all
legally required development regulations that are applicable to the project and
the site plan review. A site plan approval based solely upon application of
objective standards is an administrative decision and a site plan approved
based in whole or in part upon the plan may also be approved as part of a
conditional zoning decision.
      SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility that means land, personnel
and equipment in the management of solid waste including a transfer station,
landfill or materials recovery facility. Specifically excluded from this
definition are incinerators and drop-off recycling centers; and those solid
waste management facilities that are constructed and/or operated by or on
behalf of any federal, state or local governmental entity; provided, however,
that, this exclusion from regulation only applies to those solid waste
management facilities not operating as a hazardous waste facility. The facility
shall not include the burial of any waste.
      SPA. A commercial establishment (such as a resort) providing facilities
devoted especially to health, fitness, eight loss, beauty and relaxation.
      SPECIAL USE. A use of land, buildings or structures that is identified in
this chapter as a use that because of its inherent nature, extent and external
effects, requires special care in the control of its location, design and
methods of operating in order to ensure protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued to authorize development or land uses
in a particular zoning district upon presentation of competent material and
substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general standards
requiring that judgment and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with
specific standards. This definition includes permits previously referred to as
“conditional use permits” or “special exceptions.”
      STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties, including avenue, place, way,
drive, lane, court, boulevard, highway, road or any other thoroughfare, except
an alley or driveway.
      STREET YARD. A planting yard comprised of a strip of land containing
landscaping materials located along and parallel to a public street or streets.
      STRUCTURE. Anything vertically constructed or erected and is permanently
attached to the ground; not including roads, driveways and streetscape
features. Streetscape features may include, but are not limited to, retention
walls, fences, sidewalks, light poles, entry features, monuments, pylon signs
and similar ancillary development items, will be considered on a project by
project basis as a function of the issuance of a special use permit.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, except for the repair or replacement,
in the supporting members of a structure, such as, but not limited to, bearing
walls, columns, beams or girders.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of land for the purpose of sale or development
as specified in G.S. § 160D-8-2.
      SUBDIVISION REGULATION. A subdivision regulation authorized by G.S. §
160D-8-2.
      TATTOOING. The inserting of permanent markings or coloration, or the
producing of scars, upon or under the skin through puncturing by use of a
needle or any other method.
      TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who engages in tattooing.
      TATTOO ESTABLISHMENT. Any location where tattooing is engaged in or where
the business of tattooing is conducted in any art thereof.
      TATTOOING ROOM. A room in a tattoo establishment where tattooing is
performed.
      TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. A monopole, guyed or self-supporting tower,
constructed as a free-standing structure or in association with a building,
other permanent structure or equipment, that contains one or more antennas
intended to transmit or receive television, AM/FM radio, digital, microwave,
cellular, telephone or similar forms of electronic communication. This
definition shall not include any structures erected solely for a non-commercial
individual use such as residential television antennas.
      TEMPORARY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT SIGNS. A temporary on premise sign
displaying the availability of seasonal agricultural products offered for sale
on the premises.
      TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER. A temporary portable storage
container (such as: semi-trailers or other similar portable containers) is any
container designed for the storage of goods and materials and is usually
transported by a commercial vehicle and is for temporary use only.
      TEMPORARY SEASONAL BUSINESS SIGN. A temporary sign, including any device,
equipment or material which represents a seasonal business offered on the
premise where such sign, device, equipment or material is located. A “seasonal
business period” is defined as an activity which is limited by a natural season
or condition.
      TEMPORARY USE STRUCTURE. A structure intended for temporary offices,
headquarters or storage of materials on the same lot or tract of land being
used or developed for a directly related permanent use. This TEMPORARY
STRUCTURE shall require a temporary certificate of zoning compliance from the
Zoning Administrator for a maximum period of one year, with renewal extensions
of six months. TEMPORARY USE STRUCTURES are permitted in all zoning districts.
      TOURIST COURT. A building or group of buildings, containing a combination
of three to eight lodging units which are to be rented or leased as temporary
lodging for transients, as distinguished from rooming houses, in which
occupancy is generally by residents rather than transients. If meals are
offered, they shall only be offered to those transients currently residing in
the tourist court.
      TOWN. The Town of Banner Elk.
      TOWNHOME. A single-family attached dwelling unit in which each unit has
its own access to the outside, no unit is located over another unit, each unit
is separated from any other unit by one or more vertical common fire-resistant
walls, and where each individual unit is located on an individual lot of
record.
      TRACTOR TRAILER or SEMI-TRAILER. A commercial conveyance with a total of
no more than five axels for the transportation of retail goods. The trailer is
designed to be pulled by a truck or tractor. The trailer portion uses tandem
wheels and is usually supported in the front by legs (landing gear) when it is
uncoupled from the powered portion of the vehicle. The overall maximum length
can be no more than 70 to 80 feet and the maximum height can reach
approximately 13 feet six inches.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. Any vehicle, self-propelled or otherwise, which is
designed for transient, non-permanent living. This term shall also include any
references to recreational vehicles.
      USE. Any activity, occupation, business or operation carried on or
intended to be carried on in a building or structure or on a tract of land.
      USABLE LAND. Area that remains on a parcel of real estate that is not
defined herein.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use located on the same lot with a principal use, and
clearly incidental or subordinate to and customary in connection with the
principal use.
      USE, NON-CONFORMING. A building or land occupied by a use that does not
conform to the regulations of the use district in which it is situated.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The main and primary use on a lot.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such
variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
      VERY STEEP SLOPE. Parcel(s) of land that have an average slope of greater
than 50%.
      VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and use
of property under the terms and conditions of an approval secured as specified
in G.S. § 160D-1-8 or under common law.
      VIEWSHED. All land clearly visible from parts of N.C. Highways 184 and
194 within Banner Elk planning jurisdiction.
      WAREHOUSE AND STORAGE FACILITIES. Any fully enclosed building or portion
thereof which is used exclusively for the temporary storage of merchandise,
household or business goods, supplies, parts or equipment. Buildings or space
allocated for storage shall not include any retail displays, or public access,
or manufacturing or assembly processing.
      WATER DETENTION BASIN. Used interchangeably with detention and/or
retention ponds, a storage site whereby the water in storage is permanently
obstructed from flowing downstream and is allowed to cool and filter back into
the water.
      WINERY.
         (a)   This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one
or more of the following:
            1.   Growing grapes and manufacturing wine and brandies;
            2.   Manufacturing wine and brandies from grapes and other fruits
grown elsewhere; and
            3.   Blending wines and brandies.
         (b)   Areas for demonstration, education or tasting are included in
this definition and are incidental to the primary use of producing beverages in
accordance with state ABC permits.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except by trees or shrubbery, or as
otherwise provided herein.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front line of the building to the front line of the lot, excluding steps.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and
measured between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main
building.
      YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the building and the side line of the lot extending through the front
building line to the rear yard.
      ZONING MAP AMENDMENT or REZONING. An amendment to a zoning regulation to
change the zoning district that is applied to a specific property or
properties. It does not include the initial adoption of a zoning map by a local
government or the repeal of a zoning map and re-adoption of a new zoning map
for the entire planning and development regulation jurisdiction. It does not
include updating the zoning map to incorporate amendments to the names of
zoning districts made by zoning text amendments where there are no changes in
the boundaries of the zoning district or land uses permitted in the district.
It does not include the initial application of zoning when land is added to the
territorial jurisdiction of a local government that has been previously adopted
by/according to zoning regulations. It does include the application of an
overlay zoning district or a conditional zoning district.
      ZONING REGULATION. A zoning regulation authorized by G.S. § 160D-1-2.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 11-13-2006; Ord. passed 2-12-2007; Ord.
passed 4-9-2007; Ord. passed 6-11-2007; Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Ord. passed 2-
11-2008; Ord. passed 7-14-2008; Ord. passed 12-8-2008; Ord. passed 2-9-2009;
Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 12-21-2010; Ord. passed 6-11-2012; Ord.
passed 9-10-2012; Ord. passed 10-8-2012; Ord. passed 2-11-2013; Ord. passed 3-
11-2013; Ord. passed 9-14-2015; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 6-12-2017;
Ord. passed 5- -2018; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 200; Res. passed - -2019)
APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
§ 152.020 USE.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or
structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, moved or structurally altered,
except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter or amendments
thereto, for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 300)
§ 152.021 HEIGHT AND DENSITY.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered so as to exceed the height
limit, or to exceed the density regulations of this chapter for the district in
which it is located.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 301)
§ 152.022 LOT SIZE.
   No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record,
shall be reduced in size so that the lot width or depth, front, side or rear
yards, lot area per family or other requirements of this chapter are not
maintained. Lot size, width, depth, front, side or rear yards, lot area per
family or other requirements of this chapter may be reduced or increased in
accordance with said regulations; provided that, any lots which are not served
by public water or sewer must be approved for private water and/or sewer
systems by the county’s Health Department.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 302)
§ 152.023 YARD USE LIMITATIONS.
   No part of a yard or other space required about any building for the purpose
of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as a part of
a yard or other open space similarly required for another building.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 303)
§ 152.024 ONLY ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR PRINCIPAL USE ON ANY LOT.
   Only one principal building or principal use and its customary accessory
buildings or accessory uses may hereafter be erected or conducted on any lot,
except as provided in certain special uses as defined herein.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 304)
§ 152.025 REQUIRED ROAD ACCESS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no building or structure
shall be constructed or placed on any lot which does not have contiguous
frontage of at least 25 feet on an existing public or private road which has a
recorded minimum right-of-way width of at least 25 feet. However, a zoning
permit and a certificate of compliance may be issued for the construction or
placement of one dwelling unit on an existing lot of record which does not meet
the minimum requirements of this section; provided, the lot of record is
located on a platted right-of-way which was recorded prior to 9-11-1978. No
subdivisions of land are permitted for parcels or lots which do not meet the
minimum road access requirements in the subdivision regulations. All driveway
entrances and other openings onto streets within the town’s zoning jurisdiction
shall be constructed so that:
      (1)   Vehicles can enter and exit from the property in question without
posing any substantial danger to themselves, pedestrians or vehicles traveling
on abutting streets;
      (2)   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic on
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized;
      (3)   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. In
particular streets shall be designed to facilitate drainage and storm water
runoff, and street grades shall conform as closely as practicable to the
original topography;
      (4)   Whenever connection is anticipated, a site plan shall be submitted
to the Zoning Administrator illustrating all setbacks; proper drainage and
storm water measures; and soil and erosion control plans. Proper drainage plans
shall profile details of piping, drainage structures, swales and channels tying
into a network of pre-existing man-made or natural channels. If natural
channels are incorporated into the plan, filtering and cooling measures may be
required if tour waters are involved as per §
152.033 of this chapter. Included in the site plan will be a landscaping plan
if it is considered necessary by town staff.
      (5)   A permit approving driveway connections shall be issued by the
Zoning Administrator before any construction activity can begin. A minimum of
15 days will be required to review plans and to visit the site. During
construction, appropriate soil and erosion control measure will be maintained
to prevent runoff from entering town waterways and storm drains.
   (B)   A zoning permit and a certificate of compliance may be issued for the
construction or placement of one dwelling unit on an existing lot of record
which does not meet the minimum requirements of this section; provided, the lot
of record is located on a platted right-of-way which was recorded prior to 9-
11-1978. No subdivisions of land are permitted for parcels or lots which do not
meet the minimum road access requirements in
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Roads that do not meet the requirements of division (A) above, but
were recorded prior to 9-11-1978, may be extended only to provide access to
lots within a subdivision for heirs in accordance with §
151.23 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 305)
§ 152.026 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Districts. For the purpose of this chapter, the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction is hereby divided into the following designated
districts:
      (1)   R-1, Low-Density Residential District;
      (2)   R-1-U, Single-Family Residential District;
      (3)   R-2, General Residential District;
      (4)   C-1, Central Business District;
      (5)   C-1P, Central Business District with Parking;
      (6)   HDO, Heritage District Overlay;
      (7)   C-2, General Business District;
      (8)   RC, Resort Commercial District;
      (9)   G-O, Governmental-Office District;
      (10)   M-E, Medical Educational District;
      (11)   M-1, Industrial District;
      (12)   M-U, Mixed Use District;
      (13)   CUD, Conditional Use District; and
      (14)   CZD, Civic Zoning District.
   (B)   District boundaries. The boundaries of the district enumerated in §
152.026 of this chapter are hereby established as shown on the map entitled
“Official Zoning Map, Town of Banner Elk, North Carolina, and the Area
Comprising Its Extraterritorial Jurisdiction” adopted by the Town Council and
certified by the Town Clerk. Said map and all explanatory matter thereon
accompanies and is hereby, made a part of this chapter as if fully written
herein. Said map shall be retained in the office of the Town Clerk and also
shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
   (C)   Interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerlines of streets, highways, streams or rivers, street right-of-way
lines or such lines extended, such lines shall be construed to be such
boundaries.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
parallel to the centerlines of streets or highways, or rights-of-ways of same,
such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at
such distance there from as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is
given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said
zoning map.
      (4)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot of single ownership,
the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be
deemed to apply to the whole thereof; provided that, such extensions shall not
include any part of such a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary
line.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 306)
§ 152.027 INTENT.
   (A)   General. It is the intent of this subchapter that if any use or class
of use is not specifically permitted in a district as set forth in the sections
below, it shall be prohibited in that district unless similar uses are
described in the ordinance. Should an applicant petition the town for approval
of a use not covered specifically in this chapter, the application may be
considered as a conditional use. Factors to be considered to determine if the
use is in harmony with the keeping of the public health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the town are the impacts of anticipated amounts of traffic,
noise, light, density, vibration, odor and the bearing these may have on
adjoining neighbors and the community. The Town Council specifically finds that
industrial uses of property, such as manufacturing and other heavy industry,
are incompatible with the quiet and peaceful mountain resort and retirement
community enjoyed by the citizens. The Town Council further finds that high
impact uses of property, including, but not limited to, racetracks, shooting
ranges and other noise emitting activities, are incompatible with the quiet and
peaceful community expected and enjoyed by the citizens of the town.
   (B)   R-1, Low-Density Residential District. The R-1 Low-Density Residential
District is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for
single-family dwellings on large parcels of land. It is the intention of these
regulations to provide for limited residential development in areas where
police and fire protection, protection against flooding by storm water and
dangers from excessive erosion are not possible without excessive costs to the
community. It is also the intent to maintain and preserve a tranquil
residential community with the flexibility to accommodate conditional uses
compatible with residential use.
   (C)   R-1-U, Single-Family Residential District. The R-1-U District is
established for developments where the existing pattern of development has been
established by a subdivision intended and used principally for single-family
dwellings on traditional lots. The more defined urban pattern offers limited
use for optional non-residential development and provides justification for a
more restrictive residential zone.
   (D)   R-2, General Residential District. The R-2 General Residential
District is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for
residential purposes.
   (E)   C-1, Central Business District. In order to protect and improve the
main shopping area in the town and to discourage uses which do not require a
central location which are not compatible with the function of the area as the
primary shopping and office area, a Central Business District is hereby
established.
   (F)   C-2, General Business District. The purpose of this district is to
provide for general and commercial activity along major thoroughfares and at
other convenient points in the area. Regulations are designed to preserve the
traffic carrying capacity of the streets and to provide for off-street parking.
It is not the intent of this district to encourage extensive strip commercial
development, rather to provide concentrations of general commercial activities.
   (G)   M-E, Medical Educational District. The district is established to
provide for the specific circumstances and needs of the medical and educational
institutions within the town’s jurisdiction. The uses permitted within this
district shall be limited to those of a medical and educational nature, and
closely related uses supportive of medical and educational institutions.
   (H)   C-1P, Central Business District with Parking. The Central Business
District with Parking is created to provide an expanded central commercial area
that will maintain the character of the existing C-1 District, but will require
that all uses in the district conform to the off-street parking requirements of
this chapter.
   (I)   RC, Resort Commercial District. The Resort Commercial District is
established to provide specific areas within the town jurisdiction where
specific and limited resort activities can be developed in a more rural
setting. The district will have conditions and standards for uses in the
district that will provide protection for any adjacent residential areas while
providing a more rural, rustic setting for resort commercial activities.
   (J)   M-1, Industrial District. This district is established to provide
areas for manufacturing, warehousing and similar uses.
   (K)   G-O, Governmental-Office District. The Governmental-Office District
includes property owned by governmental entities, such as, but not limited to,
the town and county and their respective subdivisions. It includes the Town
Maintenance Facility; the Tate-Evans Park; the Banner Elk Daycare Facility; the
Wastewater Treatment Plant; Town Hall; the Police Department; the Banner Elk
Volunteer Fire Department; professional offices; and any other such properties
which may heretofore be designated for similar uses.
   (L)   Heritage District Overlay. (Boundary descriptions established on 2-7-
2005.) The purpose of the Heritage District Overlay is to protect, preserve and
encourage the architectural, cultural, village atmosphere and historical
significance of the downtown core of the town. Its boundaries shall be defined
as established on the official zoning map of the town. As an overlay district,
the permitted and special uses, as well as dimensional requirements, shall
conform to those of the underlying, except where additional requirements are
noted herein.
   (M)   Mixed Use District. This district is designed to encourage integration
of mixed land uses (residential and commercial) to promote high density, low
impact development of communities with alternatives modes of transportation,
such as walking and biking. The commercial and residential uses should
compliment each other. The district is intended to promote nodal development as
opposed to strip development and can be located away from main thoroughfares,
if the Town Council agrees that the location is consistent with the vision for
the town.
   (N)   CUD, Conditional Use District. This district is designed to allow a
zoning district with no permitted uses at all; all development is subject to
acquiring a special use permit. This can only be established at the property
owner’s request. The legislative rezoning to apply the CUD is generally done
concurrently with the quasi-judicial issuance of a SUP by the Board of
Adjustment.
   (O)   Civic Zoning District. The Civic Zoning District is established to
enable property owned by governmental entities, including the town, to operate
in a way that is beneficial to the residents of the town and protects the
historical integrity of the property while supporting the maintenance of the
property. This district is to focus on permissible uses that are compatible
with the community with some that are within the broad definition of “civic
use”. This district encourages the consolidation of civic and other public and
institutional uses into a single centralized area convenient to town employees,
residents and visitors. Educational, cultural, museum and fine arts and low
impact business uses are predominate.
   (P)   Wellhead Protection Overlay District. See §
152.034 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-13-2009; Ord. passed 9-14-2015; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 12-12-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 307)
§ 152.028 USES BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted and special uses.
RESIDENTIAL
Uses R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD CZD
RESIDENTIAL
Uses                          R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD CZD
Accessory buildings or        P   P     P   S   -   -    -   -   P  -   -   -
structures
Accessory dwelling/apartment  P   P     P   S   S   S    S   -   S  -   -   -
Bed and breakfast inns        -   -     S   S   -   S    S   -   P  -   -   -
Bed and breakfast homes       S   -     S   S   -   S    S   -   P  -   -   -
Bed and breakfast village     S   S     S   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -
Cluster subdivisions          P   -     P   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -
Family care home              P   P     P   S   -   -    -   -   P  -   -   -
Farms and related             S   S     S   S   -   S    S   -   -  -   S   -
agricultural uses
Greenhouses, non-commercial   P   P     P   S   -   -    -   P   -  -   -   -
Halfway house2                P   P     P   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -
Home occupations              P   S     P   S   -   -    -   -   S  -   -   -
Manufactured home parks       -   -     S   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -
Manufactured homes on         S   S     S   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -
individual lots - doublewide
Modular home                  P   P     P   S   -   -    -   P   P  -   -   -
Multi-family dwellings
(apartments, condominiums,
townhouses, duplexes and the            S   S                S1
like), not exceeding four
dwelling units per building
Planned residential and craft -   -     S   S   -   -    S   -   S  -   -   -
developments
Planned residential           -   -     S   S   -   -    -   -   S  -   -   -
developments
Single-family dwellings -     P   P     P   S   -   -    -   P1  P  -   -   -
detached
NOTES TO TABLE:
(-) Not permitted
(P) Permitted by right
(S) Special; see §§
152.185 through
152.190 and
152.205 through
152.229 of this chapter for additional requirements
1 Developed in accordance with the dimensional standards of the R-2 District
2 Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-907 shall not be located within 1/2 mile of another
facility of like manner
 
OFFICE, INSTITUTIONAL AND GOVERNMENT FACILITIES
Use R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD M-l CZD
OFFICE, INSTITUTIONAL AND GOVERNMENT FACILITIES
Use                       R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD M-l CZD
Accessory uses to medical
and educational
facilities: pharmacies,
snack bars, rental/sale                                  S
of medical supplies,
florist and gift shops,
not to exceed 25% of
total floor area
Airports                  S   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   S   -
Animal hospital or
veterinary clinic,        -   -     -   S   -   -    P   P   -  -   -   -   -
excluding open kennels on
the premises
Assembly halls,
gymnasiums and similar    -   -     -   S   -   -    S   P   -  -   -   -   P
structures as the
principle use
Assisted living
residences; residential             S   S            P   P          -       -
care facilities
Assisted living
facilities; residential   -   -     S   S   -   -    S   P   -  -   -   -   -
care facilities
Banks and financial       -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
institutions
Cemeteries                S   S     S   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
Civic organizations,
lodges and fraternal      -   -     S   S   P   P    P   S   -  -   -   -   P
organizations
Colleges, vocational and  -   -     S   S   S   S    P   P   -  -   -   -   P
trade schools
Community centers         S   S     S   S   -   -    P   -   -  P   -   -   P
Dormitories; student
staff housing under
direct supervision of     -   -     S   S   -   -    -   S   -  -   -   -   -
college/residential child
care institutions
EMS                       -   -     -   S   -   -    -   P   -  P   -   -   P
Fire and police stations  S   S     S   S   P   P    P   -   -  P   -   -   P
Funeral homes             -   -     -   -   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Golf course, with or
without associated        S   S     S   -   -   -    -   -   P  -   -   P   -
country club
Golf or baseball driving  -   -     -   S   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   P   -
ranges, miniature golf
Government buildings and
land (excluding
correction centers and    S   S     S   S   P   P    P          P           P
jails), including public
utility buildings and
facilities
Hospitals, medical
clinics and offices (not
to include drug or        -   -     S   S   -   -    S   P   -  -   -   -   -
alcohol treatment
facilities)
Incubator                 -   -     -   -   -   -    -   S   -  -   -   -   -
Libraries, museums and    -   -     -   S   P   P    P   P   -  -   -   -   P
art galleries
Memorial gardens          S   S     S   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   S
Music and dance studios   -   -     -   S   S   S    -   P   -  -   -   -   P
Newspaper offices and
printing plants           -   -     -   -   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   P   -
incidental to such
offices
Offices - business,
professional and public   -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
(including doctors,
dentists and the like)
Private kindergartens or  -   -     S   S       -    -   P   -  S   -   -   S
day care
Public parks with
associated facilities     S   S     S   S   P   P    P   P   P  P   -   -   P
such as playgrounds,
swimming pools
Religious institutions    S   S     S   S   S   S    -   -   -  -   -   -   -
Schools - public
elementary, junior high
and high schools,                   S   S                P                  S
including private schools
having a similar
curriculum
NOTES TO TABLE:
(-) Not permitted
(P) Permitted by right
(S) Special; see §§
152.185 through
152.190 and
152.205 through
152.229 of this chapter for additional requirements
 
RETAIL AND SERVICE
Use R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD M-l CZD
RETAIL AND SERVICE
Use                       R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD M-l CZD
Accessory uses and
structures located on the -   -     -   S   S   S    S   -   -  -   -   -
same lot as main
structure
Accessory solar energy
collection system, small  S   S     S   S   S   S    S   S   S  S   S   S   S
scale
Accessory solar energy
collection system,        -   -     -   -   S   S    S   S   -  -   -   -   S
utility scale
Antique and consignment   -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
shops
Appliance sales and
service, electrical       -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
repair no outside storage
Auto sales                -   -     -   -   -        S   -   -  -   -   -   -
Auto repair and paint
shops, excluding open
storage of wrecked cars,
discarded tires, auto
parts, or similar                                    S
materials, with exception
of temporary storage of a
wrecked car for a period
not to exceed 30 days
Bakery (sold on premise)  -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
Bicycle sales and repair  -   -     -   S   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Billiard and pool halls   -   -     -   S   P   P    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
Bowling alleys            -   -     -   S   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
Brewery, brew pub, craft  -   -     -   S   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   C   -
brewery, microbrewery
Building supply stores,
building specialty shops, -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
and equipment sales; not
to exceed 50,000 sq. ft.
Bus terminals             -   -     -   -   -        S   -   -  -   -   -   -
Car wash                  -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Coffee shops and dairy    -   -     ~   S   S   S    S   -   S  -   -   -   S
bars
Commercial campgrounds    S   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   S  -   -   -   -
Convenience store,        -   -     -   -   S   S    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
without gas sales
Convenience store with    -   -     -   -   S   S    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
gas sales
Distillery                -   -     -   S   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   S   -
Dry cleaning, laundry
services, tailor (pick-up -   -     -   -   -   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
only)
Farm machinery assembly,  -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
sales and repairs
Feed and seed stores      -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Fitness centers           -   -     -   S   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
Food trucks               -   -     -   -   P   P    P   P   -  P   -   P   S
Florist                   -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
Gift/novelty shop         -   -     -   S   P   P    P   P   -  -   -   -   S
General merchandise
stores - less than 10,000 -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
sq. ft.
General merchandise
retail stores 10,000 -    -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
50,000 sq. ft.
General merchandise
retail stores - 50,000    -   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -   -
sq. ft. or more
Greenhouse, commercial    -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Grocery stores (no        -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
wholesale)
Gunsmith                  -   -     -   -   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Hotels, condominium
hotel, retail stores and
ancillary uses to a       -   -     -   S   -   S    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
hotel, conference
facility, health club and
day spa
Hydroelectric power       -   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -   -
Locksmith                 -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
Manufactured home/        -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
building sales
Medical supply stores     -   -     -   -   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Miniature golf course     -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   S
Mobile sales and rentals  -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Monument sales            -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Motels                    -   -     -   S   -   -    S   -   S  -   -   -   -
Office supply and
equipment - sales and     -   -     -   -   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
service
Parking lot (as principle -   -     -   -   S   S    S   -   -  -   -   -   S
use)
Pawn shops                -   -     -   -   -   S    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
Personal care services -
hair, nails, tanning,     -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
weight loss
Pharmacy                  -   -     -   S   -   P    P   P   -  -   -   -   S
Photographic studios and  -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
camera supply store
Planned commercial        -   -     -   S   S   S    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
developments
Pre-form metal structures S   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   -   -
Radio and television
stations, studios,        -   -     -   -   -   -    S   P   -  -   -   P   -
offices
Recreational vehicle park -   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   S  -   -   -   -
Restaurants - carry-out,
delivery (drive thru      -   -     -   S   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   S
excluded)
Restaurants - drive thru  -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
Restaurants - sit down    -   -     -   S   S   S    S   -   S  -   -   -   -
(drive thru excluded)
Skating rinks             -   -     -   S   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   P   -
Sexually oriented         -   -     -   -   -   S    -   -   -  -   -   -   -
businesses
Shoe repair               -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Sign painting and         -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
fabricating shops
Small wireless facilities S   S     S   S   S   S    S   S   S  S   S   S   S
(concealed)
Spa                                 -   S   S   S    S   S   -  -       -   -
Tattoo parlor             -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -   -   -   -
Taxi service              -   -     -   S   S   -    -   -   -  -   -   -   -
Telecommunications        S   S     S   S   S   S    S   S   S  S   S   S   S
Structures
Theaters, indoor          -   -     -   S   P   P    P   -   -  -   -   -   S
Wind energy system        S   S     S   -   -   -    -   S   -  -   -   -   S
Winery                    - . -     -   S   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   S   -
 
MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL
Use R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD M-l CZD
MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL
Use                       R-1 R-1-U R-2 M-U C-1 C-1P C-2 M-E RC G-O CUD M-l CZD
Automobile wrecking, junk -   -         -   -   -        -   -  -   -   P   -
and salvage yards
Bottling plants           -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   P   -
Brewery, brew pub, craft  -   -         S   -        S   -   -  -       S   -
brewery, microbrewery
Cold storage and freezer  -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  _   -   P   -
lockers
Contractors offices,
including sheet metal,
machine, roofing,                                    S                  P
plumbing, heating and air
conditioning, but
excluding open storage
Dairy bars and ice cream  -   -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   P   -
manufacturing
Distillery                -   -     -   S   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   S   -
Equipment machinery           -     -   -   -   -        -      -   -   P   -
repair and service
Fabricating shops less
than 10,000 sq. ft., such     -         -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   P   -
as woodworking, cabinet
and upholstery shops
Food manufacturing        -   -     -   -   -   -    P   -   -  -       P   -
Lumber yards, building    -   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   P   -
materials storage
Manufacturing
establishments whose
manufacturing operations
are wholly and                                                          P
permanently conducted
within an enclosed
building and are of a
non-polluting nature
Material recovery site    -         -   -   -   -    S   -   -  S   -   -   -
Municipal maintenance     -   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  S   -   -   S
facilities
Printing, publishing and
reproducing               -         -   -            S   -   -  -   -   P   -
establishments
Propane filling station   -         -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -   -   -
for retail purposes
Public utility lines and
transformer stations,
transmission towers,      P   P     P   P   P   P    P   P   P  P       P   P
water tanks and towers
with storage in cabinets
or buildings
Radio and television      -   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   P   -
towers
Recycling center/refuse   -         -   -   -   -    -   -   -  S   -   -   -
collection facilities
Tire recapping                -     -       -   -    -   -   _  -   _   P   -
Trucking terminals            -     -       -   -    -   -   -  -       P   -
Water treatment               -     -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   -       -
laboratories
Wholesale storage for     -   -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   P   -
oil, fuel and gasoline
Wholesale and warehousing
establishments, except
for the storage of
dangerous or offensive                               S                  P
items such as uncured
hides, explosives, oil,
gasoline and the like
Winery                    -   -     -   S   -        S   -   -  -   -   S   -
NOTES TO TABLE:
(-) Not permitted
(P) Permitted by right
(S) Special; see §§
152.185 through
152.190 and
152.205 through
152.229 of this chapter for additional requirements
 
   (B)   Dimensional requirements by district.
                     Minimum Setback Requirements   Impervious
         Minimum Lot                                Surface* (%
District Size        Front                          of usable   Max. Height
         (sq. ft.)   (feet) Side (feet) Rear (feet) area under  (feet)
                                                    29% slope)
                     Minimum Setback Requirements   Impervious
         Minimum Lot                                Surface* (%
District Size        Front                          of usable   Max. Height
         (sq. ft.)   (feet) Side (feet) Rear (feet) area under  (feet)
                                                    29% slope)

G-O      -           20     10          10          60 to 90h   35
CZD      -           20     10          10          60 to 90h   35
HDO      g           g      g           g           NA          35
         20,000a
R-1      15,000b     20     10          10          40e         35
         10,000c
         20,000a
R-1-U    15,000b     20     10          10          45e         35
         10,000c
         20,000a
**R-2    15,000b     20     10          10          45e         35
         10,000c
M-U      NA          30     15          20          70e         35
C-1      -           d      d           d           80 to 90e   35
C-1P     -           d      d           d           80 to 90e   35
C-2      10,000      30     15          20          60e         35
M-E      40,000      35     20          25          60          35
         20,000a
RC       15,000b     f      f           f           50          35
         10,000c
M-I      40,000      35     20          25          60          35
NOTES TO TABLE:
* For maximum percentage of impervious surfaces, see division (C) below
** Multi-family units are limited to 4 units per building (quadraplex)
(1) All corner lots shall have an additional width of 10 feet
(2) Where a side yard abuts a street, the setback requirements for said side
yard shall be the same as the front yard setback requirements for abutting
property on the side street
(3) 30% of pervious surface calculation may be other materials that are
pervious, remaining 70% must be natural green plantings.
(a) Refer to division (A) above for multi-family as a special use
(b) Lots which are served by a public or community water system, but no
public or community sewer system: Each single-family unit shall require the
minimum lot size. The first multi-family unit permitted shall require the
minimum lot area for the district in which it is located, plus an additional
5,500 square feet for each additional multi-family unit
(c) Lots which are served by a public or community water and sewer system:
Each single-family unit shall require the minimum lot size. The first multi-
family unit permitted shall require the minimum lot area for the district in
which it is located, plus an additional 4,000 square feet for each
additional multi-family unit
(d) No front, side or rear yard shall be required, except as follows:
(i) Where the lot abuts a street, a 10-foot setback shall be provided from
the edge of the adjacent street
(ii) Where a side or rear yard is provided, the width of such yard shall be
not less than 4 feet
(iii) Where the lot abuts upon property zoned for residential use a densely
planted buffer strip shall be provided and maintained along the side and/or
rear lot line of such abutting residential property. Such buffer shall not
be less than 8 feet in depth along the full length of the abutting lot line
and shall be composed of evergreen trees or shrubs, which at maturity will
not be less than 8 feet in height
(e) The total impervious surface on any parcel shall not exceed 90% of the
total square footage of the lot in the C-1, C-1P and G-O Districts and shall
not exceed 45% of the total square footage of the lot in R-1, R-1-U and R-
2 Districts. In the event that on site engineered storm water facilities,
which capture the first inch of rain are presented as a function of the
development project, the amount of impervious surface can be 90% of the lot
in the C-1P, C-1 and 70% in the M-U Districts only, and then only upon a
recommendation from the Planning Board and approval of a special use permit
by the Board of Adjustments
(f) The minimum lot size for an RC development shall be 8 acres; provided
that, within such development all uses allowed as permitted uses and special
uses shall conform to the area and dimensional requirements in the R-
2 District. All special uses shall conform to the 8-acre minimum and shall
conform to the R-2 dimensional setbacks along the exterior boundary of the
property
(g) Buildings constructed within the Heritage District Overlay shall have a
maximum front building setback of 35 feet; other dimensional requirements of
the underlying district apply
(h) 60% to 90% for properties dedicated to providing emergency or civil
services in a governmental capacity may waive this requirement if deemed
essential for their operation
 
   (C)   Steep slope maximum density requirement.
                Average Natural Slope of Parcel by Acre
                Under 20% 21% to 30% 31% to 40% 41% to 50% Over 51%
Zoning District Maximum Allowable Percent of Impervious Surfaces/Dwelling Units
                Per Acre of Land Including the Removal of Active Recreation
                Area, Section 312
                Average Natural Slope of Parcel by Acre
                Under 20%   21% to 30% 31% to 40% 41% to 50% Over 51%
Zoning District Maximum Allowable Percent of Impervious Surfaces/Dwelling Units
                Per Acre of Land Including the Removal of Active Recreation
                Area, Section 312
R-1             40%         35%        30%        25%        Geotechnical
                                                             engineer required
R-2             45%         40%        35%        30%        Geotechnical
R-1-U                                                        engineer required
C-1             80% to *90% 75%        70%        65%        Geotechnical
C-1P                                                         engineer required
C-2             60%         55%        50%        45%        Geotechnical
                                                             engineer required
G-O             60% to *90% 55%        50%        45%        Geotechnical
                                                             engineer required
M-E             60%         55%        50%        45%        Geotechnical
                                                             engineer required
CZD             60% to *90% 55%        50%        45%        Geotechnical
                                                             engineer required
M-U             70%         65%        60%        55%        Geotechnical
                                                             engineer required
RC              50%         45%        40%        35%        Geotechnical
                                                             engineer required
NOTES TO TABLE:
-The percentage of the slope is to be determined for the whole acreage of a
parcel.
-A bond must be posted as a guarantee for any improvements proposed to be
dedicated to the town; contact the Zoning Administrator for more details
* Up to 90% for properties dedicated to providing emergency or civil services
in a governmental capacity may waive this requirement if deemed essential for
their operation
-30% of pervious surfaces may be pervious materials such as permeable pavers,
turf block, artificial turf. The remaining 70% must be natural green planting,
i.e. grass, flower beds.
 
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-9-2005; Ord. passed 2-12-2007; Ord.
passed 4-13-2007; Ord. 6-11-2007; Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Ord. passed 5-13-
2013; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 308; Res. passed - -
2022)
§ 152.029 SETBACK PROVISIONS.
   The setbacks shown in §
152.028(B) of this chapter are intended to provide flexibility for locating
structures on a building site while ensuring a reasonable amount of open space
for light, fire safety, privacy and aesthetics. The front setbacks, or any
setback adjacent to a street or road right-of-way, must provide for sight
visibility. (See illustration in §
152.072 of this chapter.) When natural features, including topography and
existing trees of significant value to the lot, create a problem for setting a
structure, the Board of Adjustment shall have the authority, upon request, to
grant relief to vary the setbacks in order to reduce land disturbance or
preserve valuable natural resources.
   (A)   Setbacks from roads. All setbacks from adjacent roads or right-of-way
shall be measured from the edge of the traveled way if no right-of-way exists.
However, in no case shall any structure be located closer than 20 feet from the
edge of any traveled way, except as otherwise provided in §
152.028(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Setbacks from natural features. In order to protect and preserve the
valuable natural features of the town’s community, the Board of Adjustment,
upon request, may authorize a property owner a variance to reduce a required
setback. A property owner may make such a request if supporting evidence is
provided that a reduced setback can and will preserve a natural feature which
may include natural vegetation, a watercourse or a topographic feature.
Evidence shall include a site plan which depicts the existing natural features
of the site, the location and an elevation of the proposed structures, the
setback variance requested and a plan which provides protection and safeguards
for the natural features of the site. In considering and granting a variance,
the Board of Adjustment must find that the impact of the reduced setback will
enhance and not adversely affect the safety, health and aesthetics of the
adjacent properties and the community.
   (C)   Setbacks from streams.
      (1)   The following conservation setback requirements shall apply as set
forth by the Division of Water Quality and the county:
         (a)   Twenty-five feet from the top of bank of streams;
         (b)   Thirty feet from the top of bank of any classified trout stream;
and
         (c)   Fifty feet from the top of bank of streams on commercial
properties in C-1, C-1P and C-2 Districts.
      (2)   Note: storm water and drainage facilities can encroach into these
easements for up to 25% of the easement.
   (D)   Transitional Setbacks from M-I Zoning District. In the event any part
of a parcel zoned as M-I abuts any parcel zoned as R-1, R-1U, or R-2, the
minimum setbacks for the side setback of the M-I parcel shall be not less than
35 feet, and the rear setback of the M-I parcel shall be not less than 35 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-14-2007; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 306; Res. passed - -2022)
§ 152.030 LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES INVOLVING STEEP SLOPES.
   The intent of these regulations is to provide special measures for land
development activities in areas requiring land disturbance of steep and very
steep slopes, to facilitate the identification of land areas subject to
possible slope failure and to require investigation and remediation of such
conditions, if necessary, when such land is proposed to be developed.
   (A)   (1)   The following categories of steep slope are hereby established:
         (a)   Very steep slopes are slopes steeper than 50%; and
         (b)   Steep slopes are slopes between 20% and 50%.
      (2)   Percentage of average slope is determined by the following method:
S = 0.0023 x I x LA
I = Contour intervals of the map in feet, with said intervals being 5 feet or
less
L = Total length of the contour lines within the parcel in feet
A = Area of the parcel in acres
0.0023 = The constant that converts square feet into acres
      (3)   The above formula for calculating the percentage of average slope
is used for §
152.028(C) of this chapter; which determines the amount of impervious surface
allowed for percentage of slope. Once the placement of the footprint of a
structure has been identified, the height of the building can be determined by
the midpoint of each wall of the smallest rectangle that can be made with the
entire footprint, to determine a midpoint in the center of that rectangle to be
used for a measuring point to determine the height of the building.
   (B)   Development requirements for both steep and very steep slopes shall be
as follows:
      (1)   All stream crossings, culverts and disturbance of riparian zones
are to comply with appropriate state and federal regulations;
      (2)   Should the Zoning Administrator believe that geological hazard
indicators are present, at the direction of the Town Manager, he or she may
employ and/or contract with an independent geotechnical engineer to evaluate
plans for development, as necessary, with the cost for this technical review to
be borne by the person(s) requesting development of the property. Once the
analysis is performed, the Zoning Administrator shall cause it to become a part
of the public record.
      (3)   Developers of property, where the development plan requires land
disturbing activity on very steep slopes, shall make reasonable effort to
preserve and protect features of the slope, such as trees and other plant
material, which may help to stabilize the slope.
      (4)   The owner of any property whose development plan will include the
disturbance of a steep or very steep slope, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, may challenge this determination by appeal to the Board of
Adjustment as provided in §
152.270 of this chapter.
   (C)   The requirements for land disturbing activities on very steep slopes
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Plans for the development of any property must be accompanied by a
site-specific geologic analysis of the very steep slope portion of the site to
be disturbed by the proposed development plan, paid for the by the applicant,
and conducted by a geotechnical engineer, to determine whether the proposed
development plan can be implemented without jeopardizing the slope stability on
the site itself or/and on properties surrounding the site.
      (2)   If the property is determined to be safe for development and
requires remedial measures to ensure slope stability, a North Carolina
registered geotechnical engineer must develop and present a plan to the Zoning
Administrator that will preserve slope stability on the site during and after
completion of grading and construction for the site, as well as for surrounding
properties to the extent that the contemplated development activities on the
site affect surrounding properties.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 310)
§ 152.031 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF PLANS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)    The intent of this section is to allow the town staff reasonable time
for review of submitted plans and applications. These requirements will also
allow the Board members to carefully consider plans, applications and staff
review comments.
   (B)   Certain fees apply to the reviewing of plans and are outlined in the
Banner Elk Fee Schedule and must be paid before the review begins.
   (C)   All applications and site plans for minor and major subdivisions, and
special uses that involve site plan approvals shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator for review at least 30 days before the Board meeting where these
applications will be reviewed. Three paper copies and one digital copy of plans
shall be presented for staff review, and then after the review, upon request
from the staff, additional copies shall be provided for the Board members no
later than 15 days before the meeting. For all subdivisions and special uses
that require site plan approvals, if extension of public water and/or sewer is
proposed, three paper copies and one digital copy of utility plans shall be
submitted to the Public Works Director for review at least 45 days prior to
consideration of the plans by the appropriate board. Estimated number of units,
bedrooms, lots shall be provided and uses specified. Extensions of the Town of
Banner Elk water distribution and wastewater collection systems and the
allocation of capacity related to these extensions will be evaluated in the
context of consistency with the most current Water and Sewer Master Plan by the
Town Council at a regular meeting.
   (D)   For special uses, any public hearing with the Board of Adjustment will
be scheduled in the month following the Planning Board meeting to allow
sufficient time to meet the requirements of advertising the public hearing in
the local newspaper.
   (E)   If the applications and the required plans are not complete, the
applicant shall be notified by staff in writing. Additional information
required shall be listed and the applicant shall be made aware of the fact that
the Boards will not review incomplete applications or plans. Changes or
additions to applications as a result of Staff recommendations must be
submitted to the Town Manager for consideration no later than 15 days prior to
any respective Board Meeting.
   (F)   If an application for a special use permit that requires site plan
approval is denied, the same application cannot be considered again for three
months.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any subdivision
plats or special use permit applications that were submitted for review prior
to the adoption of this section.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-14-2007; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 311)
§ 152.032 ACTIVE RECREATION AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. Residential development engenders the need to ensure that
areas are provided, either within the development itself or in conjunction with
the town, where active recreational activities can take place. Active
recreation area requirements (ARA) are established to ensure that town’s
citizens have adequate open space areas and walking trails to promote good
health and a positive sense of community.
   (B)   Exemptions. The requirements shall apply to all planned residential
developments and major subdivisions, except:
      (1)   When a planned development or a subdivision had been approved or
had a complete application filed prior to enactment of these regulations; and
      (2)   Subdivisions with lots greater than three acres.
   (C)   Applicability.
      (1)   Every person or organization that subdivides or develops land for
residential use shall provide for a recreational facility in accordance with
this section by one of the following methodologies: establish within the
development areas suitable for active recreation; provide cash-in-lieu-of
payment; or to provide a combination of cash and facility development
acceptable to the Town Council. Should payment in lieu of the provision of
onsite ARA be determined to be the preferred method of compliance with this
chapter, the amount will be determined in accord with division (D) below.
      (2)   The amount of land required for ARA shall be based on the acreage
of total area in a subdivision or planned residential development. The
requirement shall be 15% of the gross square footage of the site.
      (3)   Criteria for evaluating suitability of proposed recreation areas
within the residential development shall include, but not be limited to the
following as determined by the town’s Planning Board.
         (a)   Unity. The dedicated land shall be a single parcel, except where
it is determined that two or more parcels would be in the public interest. The
Planning Board may require that the parcels be connected and may also require a
path of least 20 feet in width in addition to the land requirement. Trails
cannot account for more than 25% of the required active recreation area.
         (b)   Location. The dedicated land shall be located so as to serve the
recreation needs of the residents which are a part of the proposed development.
         (c)   Physical characteristics. The shape, topography and soils types
of the land shall be such as to be usable for active recreation. Ponds and
other water features may not be included in computing dedicated land area
unless acceptable to the Planning Board. Average slope of ARA shall be under
15%.
         (d)   Accessibility. Community access to the Active recreation area
shall be provided either by an abutting street or community greenway easement.
Such community easement shall be at least 20 feet in width or should connection
to town greenway system be possible the easement shall be 30 feet.
   (D)   Fees in lieu of providing land as required in division (B)(2) above. A
developer may provide funds in the amount of 125% (to account for the cost of
recreational equipment) of assessed value, as determined by the county’s Tax
Assessor, of the land area prescribed in division (C)(2) above. The Town
Council upon a recommendation from the Planning Board shall determine whether
fees in lieu of providing ARA is an acceptable solution, or if it can be a
combination of fees and land.
   (E)   Use of fees. The funds collected from the cash-in-lieu-of-land
payments shall be spent only on capital improvements to town-owned recreational
facilities or acquisition of new land and facilities, including greenway
construction. The expenditure of recreation funds paid by the developer to the
town in lieu of providing active recreation area shall be determined by the
Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-14-2007; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 310)
§ 152.033 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The storm water management regulations of this section shall
protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and
general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control
the adverse effects of storm water runoff associated with new development.
Proper management of storm water runoff will protect property, control stream
channel erosion, prevent increased flooding associated with new development,
protect floodplains, wetlands, water resources, riparian and aquatic ecosystems
and otherwise provide for environmentally sound use of the town’s natural
resources. These regulations create standards for post development levels of
run off in addition to construction run off regulation that are governed by the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources as part of the soil erosion
control permit. All storm water best management practices planned, designed and
implemented under the authority of this chapter shall conform to the standards
adopted by NCDENR in the latest Storm Water Best Management Practices Manual.
Access to this manual can be found at http://portal.ncdenr.org/web/lr/bmp-
manual. Where contradiction exists between the manual and this chapter, the
stricter of the two shall prevail.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPLICANT. An owner or developer of a site who executes the storm water
permit application.
      BIO-RETENTION BASIN. The use of plants and soils for removal of
pollutants from storm water runoff via adsorption, filtration, sedimentation,
volatilization, ion exchange and biological decomposition. In addition, BIO-
RETENTION provides landscaping and habitat enhancement benefits.
      CONNECTION. Any ditch, pipe or other device for the diversion or
transmission of storm drainage, which will in any way affect the operation or
maintenance of the drainage ways.
      CONVEYANCE. Any feature of the landscape or earth, human-made or natural,
which carries water in a concentrated flow.
      DETAIN. To store and slowly release storm water runoff following
precipitation by means of a surface depression or tank and an outlet structure.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially pervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil, other than
a rebuilding activity that does not qualify as redevelopment.
      DRAINAGE STRUCTURES. Shall include swales, channels, storm sewers, curb
inlets, yard inlets, culverts and other structures designed or used to convey
storm water.
      DRY EXTEND DETENTION BASIN. A dry extended detention basin temporarily
stores incoming storm water, trapping suspended pollutants and reducing the
peak discharge from the site.
      GRASSED SWALE. A water quality grassed swale is a shallow open-channel
drainage way stabilized with grass or other herbaceous vegetation that is
designed to filter pollution.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of, or operations on, the land by any
person in residential, industrial, educational, institutional or commercial
development, including road construction and maintenance, that results in a
change in the natural cover or topography.
      TEN-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour
rainfall of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once
in ten years and with a duration of 24 hours.
      RAIN GARDEN. A rain garden is a planted depression allows rain water
runoff from impervious urban areas, like roofs, driveways, walkways, parking
lots and compacted lawn areas, the opportunity to be absorbed.
      RETAIN. To capture and hold storm water runoff following precipitation by
means of surface depression allowing the water to infiltrate into the soil,
thus reducing the hydrologic and pollution impacts downstream.
      STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from rainfall events.
      STREAM. A watercourse that collects surface runoff, minor waterway
leading to a river.
      VELOCITY. The average velocity of flow through the cross-section of the
main channel at the peak flow of the storm of interest.
      WET DETENTION BASIN. A storm water management facility that includes a
permanent pool of water for removing pollutants and additional capacity above
the permanent pool for detaining storm water runoff.
   (C)   Applicability and exemptions.
      (1)   The storm water management regulations of this section apply to the
following activities:
         (a)   All new commercial development or expansions of commercial/
industrial development that create an additional 2,000 square feet of
impervious surface.
         (b)   All major subdivisions and planned residential developments with
land disturbance over one acre, that will require a soil and erosion control
plan.
      (2)   The following activities will be exempt:
         (a)   Any development in which the owner has accrued a vested right
prior to adoption of these regulations;
         (b)   Redevelopment or expansions on existing residential lots, if the
increase in the additional impervious surface created is less than 3,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Minor subdivisions and minor subdivisions for heirs;
         (d)   Single-family residential development when total land
disturbance of less than one acre takes place;
         (e)   Agricultural and forestry activities as defined by general
statutes; and
         (f)   Activities for which a permit is required under the Mining Act,
being G.S. Ch. 74, Art. 7.
   (D)   Design standards.
      (1)   Design standards are established for the purpose of promoting sound
development practices which respect, preserve and enhance the town’s
watercourses and are not intended to prohibit the use of innovative and
alternative techniques which can be demonstrated to have the potential for
successfully achieving the objectives stated in division (A) above. All storm
water best management practices planned, designed and implemented under the
authority of this chapter shall conform to the standards adopted by NCDENR in
the latest Storm Water Best Management Practices Manual. To access this manual:
http://portal.ncdent.org/web/lr/bmp-manual. Where contradictions exist between
the manual and this chapter, the town ordinance shall supersede the NCDENR
document.
      (2)   The measures shall control and treat the difference in storm water
runoff volume leaving the project site between the pre- and post-development
conditions for, at a minimum, the ten-year, 24-hour storm.
      (3)   The design of drainage facilities in flood hazard areas shall be
consistent with the requirements of
Ch. 150 of this code of ordinances. No storm water controls shall be allowed
within the floodway unless a no rise certification from a licensed engineer or
a CLOMR and LOMR are obtained from FEMA.
      (4)   Runoff calculations shall be based on full potential development of
the project to the extent allowed by the current zoning and subdivision
regulations. A full set of design calculations, plans, hydrographs and other
supporting documents shall be submitted to the town to demonstrate compliance
with this chapter. The aforementioned plans must be sealed by a licensed North
Carolina professional engineer.
      (5)   Storm water controls that drain in whole or part to designated
trout waters as defined by the state’s Environmental Management Commission
shall be designed and shall implement the best storm water management practices
that do not result in a sustained increase in the receiving water temperature,
while still meeting the other requirements of this chapter. It is the applicant
and the engineer’s responsibility to demonstrate that this requirement can be
met based on the proposed BMP and design.
   (E)   Design standards for water detention.
      (1)   This shall be accomplished under the guidelines as follows.
         (a)   Wet detention basins shall maintain a permanent pool of water,
sufficiently deep to function as open waterbody.
         (b)   Ponds should be engineered to maximize the theoretical detention
time and avoid flow short-circuiting. Basic considerations for the installation
of detention basins are location, hydraulic inflow rate, hydraulic residence
time, permanent pool size and maintenance.
         (c)   Design shall include mechanisms to:
            1.   Promote settling of suspended particulates;
            2.   Biological uptake of pollutants; and
            3.   Decomposition of pollutants and plant nutrients.
         (d)   Pond shape, depth and surrounding fringe areas must be
considered to maximize effectiveness of basin.
         (e)   Marsh plants shall be included around this fringe area to help
remove pollutants, provide habitat, hide debris and improve the look of an
otherwise unsightly area.
         (f)   Dry extended detention basins provide fewer hazards to the
public due to the absence of a permanent pools.
         (g)   Rain Gardens and grassy swales reduce run-off by allowing storm
water to soak back into the ground with the use of natural plants that also
absorb the water and hold it until it can be released slowly back into the
ground.
      (2)   Maintenance of wet retention ponds should be minimal if designed
correctly. However, non-organic debris shall be removed on a regular basis.
      (3)   Maintenance of any storm water measures will be overseen by a
property owners association (or equivalent) if required as a part of a planned
residential development approval. Failure to maintain storm water development
systems may result in a violation of this chapter and will be subject to
penalties as outlined in §
152.999 of this chapter.
   (F)   Notice of violation and penalty. Failure to design storm water
development systems or maintain these systems may result in a violation of this
chapter and will be subject to penalties as outlined in §
152.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-14-2007; Ord. passed 7-14-2008; Ord.
passed 4-12-2010; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 313)
§ 152.034 WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT/WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN.
   (A)   Background.
      (1)   In 1986, Safe Water Drinking Act (SWDA) amendments added Section
1428, “State Programs to Establish Wellhead Protection Areas”, which requires
each state to develop a program to “protect wellhead areas within their
jurisdiction from contaminants which may have any adverse affects on the health
of persons.” The term wellhead protection area is defined in the law as “the
surface and subsurface area surrounding a water well or well field, supplying a
public water system, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move
toward and reach such water well or well field.” North Carolina’s Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) approved Wellhead Protection Program (WHPP) provides
technical support to local governments and public water supply systems in their
endeavors to develop and implement their own wellhead protection plans.
      (2)   The state’s objective in developing a protection plan is to provide
a process for public water system operators to learn more about their
groundwater systems and how to protect them. Wellhead protection plans allow
communities to take charge of protecting the quality of their drinking water by
identifying and carefully managing areas that supply groundwater to their
public wells.
      (3)   Regulations of the Division of Water Resources (DWR), under the
Department of Environmental Quality require wellhead protection measures for
any public water supply wells to be used as a community or non-transient, non-
community water system to meet the following requirements:
         (a)   The well shall be located on a lot so that the area within 100
feet of the well shall be owned or controlled by the person supplying the
water. The supplier of water shall be able to protect the well lot from
potential sources of pollution and to construct landscape features for drainage
and diversion of pollution.
         (b)   The minimum horizontal separation between the well and known
potential sources of pollution shall be as follows:
            1.   One hundred feet from any sanitary sewage disposal system,
sewer, or a sewer pipe unless the sewer is constructed of water main materials
and joints, in which case the sewer pipe shall be at least 50 feet from the
well;
            2.   Two hundred feet from a subsurface sanitary sewage treatment
and disposal system designed for 3,000 or more gallons of wastewater a day
flows, unless it is determined that the well water source utilizes a confined
aquifer;
            3.   Five hundred feet from a septage disposal site;
            4.   One hundred feet from buildings, mobile homes, permanent
structures, animal houses or lots, or cultivated areas to which chemicals are
applied;
            5.   One hundred feet from surface water;
            6.   One hundred feet from a chemical or petroleum fuel underground
storage tank with secondary containment;
            7.   Five hundred feet from a chemical or petroleum fuel
underground storage tank without secondary containment;
            8.   Five hundred feet from the boundary of a ground water
contamination area;
            9.   Five hundred feet from a sanitary landfill or non-permitted
non-hazardous solid waste disposal site;
            10.   One thousand feet from a hazardous waste disposal site or in
any location which conflicts with the North Carolina Hazardous Waste Management
Rules cited as 15A NCAC 13A;
            11.   Three hundred feet from a cemetery or burial ground; and
            12.   One hundred feet from any other potential source of
pollution.
         (c)   The Department may require greater separation distances or
impose other protective measures then necessary to protect the well from
pollution; the Department shall consider as follows:
            1.   The hazard or health risk associated with the source of
pollution;
            2.   The proximity of the potential source to the well;
            3.   The type of material, facility or circumstance that poses the
source or potential source of pollution;
            4.   The volume or size of the source or potential source of
pollution;
            5.   Hydrogeological features of the site which could affect the
movement of contaminants to the source water;
            6.   The effect which well operation might have on the movement of
contamination; and
            7.   The feasibility of providing additional separation distances
or protective measures.
         (d)   The lot shall be graded or sloped so that surface water is
diverted away from the wellhead. The lot shall not be subject to flooding.
         (e)   When the supplier of water is unable to locate water from any
other approved source and when an existing well can no longer provide water
that meets the requirement of this section, a representative of the division
may approve a smaller well lot and reduced separation distances for temporary
use.
      (4)   In addition, communities are encouraged to establish wellhead
protection plans, which include the following:
         (a)   The formation of a wellhead protection committee to establish
and implement the wellhead protection program whose role it is to conduct a
potential contaminant source inventory, provide options for the management of
the WHP area, seek public input into the creation of the WHP plan, seek
approval of the WHP program and to implement the WHP program;
         (b)   Delineation of the contributing areas of the water sources;
         (c)   Identification of potential contamination sources within the
wellhead protection area;
         (d)   Develop and implement wellhead protection area management
actions to protect the water sources;
         (e)   Develop an emergency contingency plan for alternative water
supply sources in the event the groundwater supply becomes contaminated and
emergency response planning for incidents that may impact water quality;
         (f)   Development of a public education program; and
         (g)   Conduct new water source planning to insure the protection of
new water source locations and to augment current supplies.
      (5)   Wellhead protection for public water supply wells is a voluntary
program, but water systems across the state are encouraged to take the above
steps in protecting all groundwater sources. The Public Water Supply Section
(PWSS) provides the final approval for WHP programs. The North Carolina
Wellhead Protection Program Coordinator is:
         M. Gale Johnson, P.G.
         Public Water Supply Section
         1634 Mail Service Center
         Raleigh, North Carolina 27699-1634
         Phone 919-707-9083
         Fax 919-715-4374
   (B)   Introduction. The town is located in the northwest quadrant of Avery
County in the Appalachian Highlands 3,739 feet above sea level (Banner Elk
Development Plan, 1967). High peaks and rugged ridges surround the town. The
town is known for its proximity to major ski resort areas and is home to Lees-
McRae College. The town has 1,146 customers via 621 connections with an average
daily usage of 233,000 gallons per day. The town currently gets its water from
four wells and one ground storage tank with a total storage capacity of 500,000
gallons. Water treatment consists of Sodium Hypochlorite for microbial
disinfection, Polyphosphate for iron sequestration and Sodium Hydroxide for pH
adjustment. The town currently contracts an independent company for well system
operations.
   (C)   Planning team. The following people have been designated or
volunteered to serve as the Wellhead Protection Committee (WPC):
 
Name           Position
Rick Owen      Town Manager
Earl Turbyfill Public Works Director
Harold Shell   ORC, Water Quality Labs
Justin Hodges  Water Resources
Brian Grogan   NC Rural Water Association
 
   (D)   Responsibilities for the WHP plan.
      (1)   The positions responsible for implementing the program are the Town
Council. They have accepted the recommendations made in the program by the WPC
and the Council has granted the Town Manager, the authority to implement the
plan and to approve any revisions that may be necessary to obtain approval from
the Public Water Supply Section (PWSS).
      (2)   The Town Council will begin implementation of the plan immediately
following its approval by the PWSS of the North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) and will complete implementation within 90 days.
   (E)   Needs and goals.
      (1)   Long-term goals and visions.
         (a)   Provide safe drinking water for all town water customers;
         (b)   Approval of the town’s wellhead protection program by the Public
Water Supply Section of the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality;
and
         (c)   Provide for security of well houses and site property.
      (2)   Problems and needs identified.
         (a)   To provide protection of the town water resources at present and
into the future;
         (b)   Educate town water customers on groundwater and how to protect
it; and
         (c)   Develop an overlay zoning district to add protection and control
growth and development within the wellhead protection area.
   (F)   Delineation of the wellhead protection area.
      (1)   Delineation of the wellhead protection areas involves making an
inventory of all public water supply (PWS) wells included under the plan and
gathering basic information about each well. The most important part of this
step is to identify the area that must be managed to reduce the likelihood of
contamination of your well, the wellhead protection area (WHPA).
      (2)   The modified calculated fixed radius method was used to establish
the wellhead protection area for the town. Circular wellhead zones were
delineated around each of the pumping wells using the following equations:
 
Acmax = Qmpw
        W
Acmax = The maximum contributing area, in square miles
        The maximum permitted daily withdrawal in gallons per minute (based on
Qmpw  = a 720-minute per day pumping cycle, although the cycle is typically
        less than 320 minutes/day)
        Estimated average recharge rate to the surficial aquifer. In the town
W     = area, the value is estimated to be 600,000 gallons per day per square
        mile, (Heath and Johnson, 2001).
 
      (3)   The radii of circular protection areas (r, in feet) are found by
the formula:
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/IMAGES/0-0-0-1509.png]
      (4)   Because transmissivity may be directional due to cracks or
foliations in the bedrock, the area was doubled for all wells except well 3. It
is assumed that well 3 will have infinite recharge due to the close proximity
to the river. The resulting circular wellhead protection areas were then
modified to account for the terrain and drainage patterns exhibited on a
topographical map of the area, thus resulting in larger and extended shape of
the protection area. The final wellhead protection area consists of two
separate areas on each side of the river. Maps of the wellhead protection areas
are located in this section.
Table 1. Well and Delineation Information
Well Yield (Qmpw)                 Acmax (mi2) Acmax (mi2) Radius
     Gallons/ Minimum Gallons/Day                         Miles Feet
Table 1. Well and Delineation Information
Well Yield (Qmpw)                 Acmax (mi2) Acmax (mi2) Radius
     Gallons/ Minimum Gallons/Day                         Miles Feet
1    110              79,200      .13         .26         .29   1,531
2    60               43,200      .07         .14         .21   1,130
3    200              144,000     .24         na1         .28   1,459
5    165              118,800     .20         .40         .36   1,875
1   The radius for well 3 was not doubled due to assumed infinite recharge
from the river
2   There are no available copies of well records or pump tests for town
wells. Information on pump rates, depth and date drilled was taken from
SDWIS database
 
   (G)   Potential contaminant source inventory. A potential contaminant source
(PCS) is any substance or activity that could adversely affect the quality of
your drinking water supply. The PCS inventory is a complete listing, including
mapped locations, of past and present land use activities within the wellhead
protection area (WHPA) that threaten ground-water quality.
      (1)   NC SWAP reports (source water assessment and protection). The
source water assessment program (SWAP) information is compiled by the Public
Water Supply (PWS) Section from available electronics PCS databases with state-
wide coverage obtained from various state agencies. The SWAP information is an
extremely valuable starting point for conducting a PCS inventory. However, it
is not a comprehensive database of all PCSs. Because it includes only those
databases with state-wide coverage that are available to the PWS Section in an
electronic format, PCS information specific to the area of interest may not be
included. Databases (both hard copy and electronic) maintained by local,
county, state, and federal agencies may contain information about known PCSs
occurring within the WHPAs (such as, areas of pesticide or fertilizer
application, pesticide storage areas, landfills or dumps, inactive hazardous
waste sites, underground storage tanks, above ground storage tanks, areas with
septic systems, improperly constructed/abandoned wells, and the like). The NC
SWAP report was reviewed by the WPC and the susceptibility for all four wells
was ranked by the NC PWS Section as moderate. It is important to understand
that a susceptibility rating of moderate does not imply poor water quality.
Susceptibility is an indication of a water supply’s potential to become
contaminated by the identified PCSs within the assessment area. The town’s SWAP
report can be located at the following website: http://www.ncwater.org/files/
swap/SWAP_Reports/0106015_7_2_2015_85_11.pdf.
      (2)   Pre-sanitary landfills. The landfills that appeared on the waste
management pre-sanitary landfill data base were surveyed and it was determined
by the WPC that no such facilities were within the WHPAs.
      (3)   State solid waste facilities. According to the solid waste
database, there were no solid waste facilities located in the town’s WHPAs.
      (4)   Underground injection control (UIC). According to the UIC database,
there were no UIC facilities located in the town’s WHPAs.
      (5)   Animal operations (swine). It was determined by the WPC that the
animal operations which appeared on the database were not within the WHPAs.
      (6)   State NPDES permit database. It was determined by the WPC that the
state NPDES permits which appeared on the database were not within the WHPAs.
      (7)   Local database search. The County Emergency Management Director,
David Charles Vance (828) 733-8213 was contacted concerning SARA Title III Tier
II facilities that might occur within the WHPA. SARA stands for Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 and is regulated by the
Environmental Protection Agency, EPA. The purpose of this tier II reporting is
to provide state and local officials and the public with specific information
on hazardous chemicals present at a given facility during a specific time
period.
      (8)   PIRF incidents. The PIRF database contains information regarding
the release of pollutants into the environment that have or are likely to have,
impact on the groundwater resources of the state. The initial information
regarding these releases is usually obtained from concerned citizens or
responsible parties, who report the release to the Department of Environmental
Quality. After an incident is reported, regional office staff investigates the
reported incident and enter the results of their investigation into a state-
wide database. This database contains an inventory of reported incidents from a
variety of sources, such as leaking storage tanks, tanker spills, animal
feedlots, stockpiles, and the like. Substances released into the environment
include gasoline and other related compounds, chemicals, nitrates, pesticides,
and other organic and inorganic contaminants. There are two main sources for
this data. The Division of Waste Management, underground storage tank section,
provided information on the pollution incidents that resulted from a leaking
underground storage tank. The Division of Water Resources, aquifer protection
section provided information on all other pollution incidents. Two PIRF
incidents were identified within the WHPA. A summary of these events is located
in this section.
      (9)   Septic tanks. The County Health Department is responsible for
inspection of all septic tanks in the county. The town operates a sanitary
sewer system with most homes and businesses located in the WHPA on this system.
Any homes and businesses that are determined to be connected to septic tanks
will be given a brochures covering proper maintenance of their septic system
and any other educational materials that the town may find to be beneficial.
      (10)   Abandoned wells. The town has taken well 4 out of service due to
surface water infiltration and properly abandoned in accordance with standard
#15A NCAC 2C.0110. The town is also looking at ways to encourage property
owners to abandon any well no longer being used.
      (11)   Windshield survey. Based upon the information found through the
database searches, the WPC conducted a windshield survey of the entire WHPA to
identify each potential contamination source (PCS) found and also any other
facilities or activities that exist within the WHPA. On-site visits were made
and additional information was obtained regarding quantity and types of
contaminants kept onsite. Table 2 shows the potential contaminant sources
identified along with quantities and types of contaminants found at the site.
Each potential contaminant site was assigned a code that was used to locate it
on the inventory map. The inventory map shows the location of each of the
potential contaminant sources within the WHPA. The code given each site is
based on the following list:
 
Category                       Code
Highways                       A
Underground storage tank (UST) B
Storm water discharge vault    C
Surface water                  D
 
   (H)   Potential contaminant sources.
 
Table 2. Potential Contaminant Sources
Map Code PCS Site          Owner Contact     Contaminants    Volume
                           Avery County DOT
A-1      NC State Highway  Jerry Combs, Co.
A-2      194 & HWY 184     Engineer          Spills          N/A
                           828-733-2776
                           Emergency: 911
                           Avery County
         UST #27591        Board of
B-1      Banner Elk        Education            UST       10,000 gallons
         Elementary School P.O. Box 1360                     fuel oil
         185 Azalea Circle Newland, NC 28657
                           828-733-6006
                           Town of Banner
         Storm Water       Elk                               150,000 gallons
C-1      Discharge         P.O. Box 2049        Spills    collection of
         Azalea Circle     Banner Elk, NC                    storm water runoff
                           28604
                           828-898-5398
D-1      Shawneehaw Creek                      Leaks/spilN/A
 
      (1)   For each WHPA, the PCSs were ranked according to the threat each
presented to the water supply well or wells. The following method was used to
rank each PCS in each WHPA:
         (a)   Each PCS was assigned to a risk category of higher, moderate, or
lower based on information adapted from the EPA (1993), and from the Oregon
wellhead protection program. Each PCS was assigned a numerical “category” score
to correspond with the risk category (such as, higher-3, moderate-2, lower-1).
For sites with more than one source of potential contamination, the sum of the
category scores for each potential contaminant was used. Each site of potential
contamination was then assigned a “proximity” score calculated with the
following equation:
   Proximity score =1-(distance from the well/radius of the WHPA)
         (b)   The final PCS ranking was obtained by multiplying the category
score by the proximity score for each potential contaminant site. This resulted
in a relative ranking of each PCS within a given WHPA based on the threat posed
to the water supply well or wells. This risk analysis provided information that
was used to determine which water supply wells are at greater risk of
contamination and which PCSs should be considered first in regards to wellhead
protection. Table 3 lists the risk potential score, proximity score and overall
risk score for each PCS associated with each well.
         (c)   Because the wells are located in an unconfined aquifer,
groundwater is readily susceptible to surface spills and leaks. Although the
wells draw water from the fractured rock aquifer that lies under the soil and
regolith, contamination can still enter the through downward percolation. The
wells are at greatest risk from:
            1.   Underground storage tanks (USTs); and
            2.   Stormwater discharge.
   Table 3. PCS Risk Evaluation
Map Symbol Site Distance from WHAA Radius Proximity Category Overall Score
                Well                      Score     Score
   Table 3. PCS Risk Evaluation
Map Symbol Site       Distance  WHAA Radius Proximity Category Overall Score
                      from Well             Score     Score
   Well 1
A-1        NC Hwy 194 440       1531        0.71      2        1.43
D-1        Shawneehaw 430       1531        0.72      1        0.72
           Creek
Total Well                                                     2.14
1:
   Well 2
A-1        NC Hwy 194 165       1130        0.85      2        1.71
D-1        Shawneehaw 325       1130        0.71      1        0.71
           Creek
Total Well                                                     2.42
2:
   Well 3
A-1        NC Hwy 194 580       1459        0.60      2        1.20
D-1        Shawneehaw 70        1459        0.95      1        0.95
           Creek
B-1        Elementary 469       1459        0.68      3        2.04
           School UST
A-2        NC Hwy 184 890       1459        0.39      2        0.78
C-1        Stormwater 810       1459        0.44      3        1.33
           discharge
Total Well                                                     6.31
3:
   Well 5
A-2        NC Hwy 184 1200      1875        0.36      2        0.72
B-1        Elementary 1573      1875        0.16      3        0.48
           School UST
D-1        Shawneehaw 1100      1875        0.41      1        0.41
           Creek
C-1        Stormwater 1280      1875        0.32      3        0.95
           discharge
Total Well                                                     2.57
5:
 
      (2)   With a total risk assessment score of 6.31, well #3 is most at
risk. Because it has more potential sources of contamination, some of which are
close to the well. The higher-risk sites were found to be the UST and the
stormwater discharge. Moderate and lower-risk sites identified were major roads
through town and surface water (Shawneehaw Creek). The other risk assessment
scores were: well #2 at 2.42, well #1 at 2.14 and well #5 at 2.57.
   (I)   Management of the wellhead protection area.
      (1)   There are two methods of managing wellhead protection areas (WHPA).
They are regulatory and non-regulatory. The town has chosen regulatory as their
main line of defense and non-regulatory management methods for PCS’s in the
WHPA already.
      (2)   The town has adopted a zoning overlay district for their WHPA to
keep this area from being developed with businesses or activities that could
potentially harm the water resources of the town. A copy of the document is
included in the appendix at the end of this section.
      (3)   A total of three wellhead protection brochures (tri-fold) will be
delivered to each resident, business, and agricultural operation within the
wellhead protection area. Copies of these brochures will be made available at
the Town Hall and other locations deemed necessary for public education on
wellhead protection. In general, the brochures will convey to each citizen/
business the following information:
         (a)   An explanation of what groundwater is and the number of wells in
their particular system;
         (b)   An explanation of what a wellhead protection program is;
         (c)   Sources of groundwater pollution;
         (d)   Phone numbers to contact for more information; and
         (e)   Tips on protecting their water supply such as:
            1.   Proper disposal of household hazardous wastes and oils (for
example, not disposed of through septic systems, pouring on ground, or through
regular garbage collection);
            2.   Proper use and storage of fertilizers and pesticides; and
            3.   Proper maintenance of home heating oil tanks and septic
systems.
      (4)   The town will provide information to each business located within
the WHPA on waste handling practices, best management practices, standard
operating procedures, and waste oil disposal methods which could be employed to
reduce the potential for ground water contamination. The town will also provide
information regarding the North Carolina Division of Environmental Assistance
and Customer Service (DEACS) to each business, industry, and farm located
within the WHPA. Owners/operators of potential contamination sources will be
encouraged to contact the DEACS. DEACS provides free technical and other non-
regulatory assistance to reduce the amount of waste released into the air and
water and on the land. The DEACS serves as a central repository for waste
reduction and pollution prevention information. The DEACS emphasizes waste
reduction through pollution prevention, encourages companies and government
agencies to go beyond compliance, and provides information about the
environmental permitting process. This information is provided at no charge to
state businesses, industries, government agencies, and the general public upon
request. For additional information, the DEACS may be contacted at (877) 623-
6748.
      (5)   Personnel with the town will be educated on wellhead protection and
steps they can take to reduce the potential for contamination (such as,
information about best management practices, standard operating procedures,
waste handling practices, and the like). The town will also contact the State
Division of Environmental Assistance and Customer Service (DEACS) to
investigate steps that the town can take to reduce the amount of waste released
into the air and water and on the land at town owned and/or managed facilities.
      (6)   Owners of improperly constructed/abandoned wells identified within
the WHPA will be provided information regarding the threat posed to the water
supply by these wells. Owners of improperly constructed/abandoned wells will be
encouraged to have these wells properly abandoned in accordance with the
state’s well construction standards found at 15A NCAC 2C.0100. If information
exists that a well is improperly constructed or is contributing to the
contamination of groundwater, the town will notify the aquifer protection
section, Division of Water Resources.
      (7)   If an abandoned UST site is found, the town will contact the North
Carolina Division of Waste Management, UST Section, to determine if a closure
report was submitted demonstrating that no soil or groundwater contamination
was identified during the removal of UST’s. If a closure report was not
submitted, the town will notify the UST section of the location of the facility
within the WHPA and its proximity to a public water supply well.
      (8)   The County Solid Waste has a one-time per year hazardous household
waste (HHW) program at this time and accepts all forms of HHW. Each year the
county notifies the residents about the upcoming date for this event and the
tow will work to get this information into all residents and business owners in
the WHPA. The County Solid Waste Department phone number is (828) 737-5420.
      (9)   All residents and businesses in the WHPA of each well with septic
tanks and home heating oil tanks will be distributed a copy of the wellhead
protection brochure and any other information the town can obtain from county
and/or state agencies on proper septic tank and heating oil tank maintenance.
      (10)   Automotive repair businesses in the wellhead protection areas that
produce auto wastes (oils, acids, anti-freeze, and the like) will be provided
information on waste handling practices, best management practices, standard
operating procedures, and waste oil disposal methods which could be employed to
reduce the potential for ground water contamination. They will also be provided
with information regarding the North Carolina Division of Environmental
Assistance and Customer Service (DEACS). Owners/operators of these facilities
will be encouraged to contact the DEACS.
      (11)   The town owns and maintains a storm water catch basin that will
hold 150,000 gallons. The parking lots, roads and streets within the downtown
area of the town are tied to this basin.
      (12)   For any soil or ground-water contamination incidents discovered
within the WHPA, the town will contact the state agencies with oversight
responsibilities for remediation to determine if remediation efforts are
proceeding in a timely fashion and in accordance with any schedules established
by these agencies. Through this process, the town will bring to the attention
of the state agencies with oversight responsibilities for remediation any
failures by the responsible parties to comply with required monitoring and
corrective action. The town will also notify the state agencies with oversight
responsibilities for remediation of the location of any such facilities within
the WHPA and their proximity to public water supply well. The town will also
contact the state agencies with oversight responsibilities for contamination
incidents and notify them of the locations of any sites issued notices of “no-
further action” occurring within the WHPA and will request a review of this
assessment.
      (13)   (a)   The town will notify any individual, industry, business, or
government agency installing or planning to install a regulated underground
storage tank within the town’s wellhead protection area of the following
regulation: North Carolina underground storage tank (UST) regulation 15A NCAC
2N.0301 stipulates specific siting and secondary containment requirements for
UST systems installed after January 1,1991. The rule is summarized as follows:
            1.   No UST system may be installed within 100 feet of a public
water supply well or within 50 feet of any other well used for human
consumption.
            2.   Secondary containment is required for UST systems within 500
feet of a well serving a public water supply or within 100 feet of any other
well used for human consumption.
         (b)   Violations of this regulation will be reported to the Division
of Waste Management, underground storage tank section. The UST Section will
also be notified of the location of the facility within the WHPA and its
proximity to a public water supply well or any other well used for human
consumption.
         (c)   A regulated UST system is any underground storage tank and
associated piping that contains petroleum (including gasoline, diesel and used
oil) or a hazardous substance as defined by the state rules (15A NCAC 2N).
Tanks containing heating oil for use on the premises where stored are not
regulated.
      (14)   Facilities with an underground buried storage capacity of more
than 42,000 gallons of oil, or an aggregate above ground storage capacity
greater than 1,320 gallons of oil, or an above ground storage capacity of a
single container in excess of 660 gallons are subject to the oil pollution
prevention regulations contained in federal regulations found at 40 C.F.R. §
112. These facilities must prepare and implement a spill prevention control and
countermeasures (SPCC) plan. The town should verify the status of the SPCC plan
for each subject facility located within the WHPA. The state statutes require
registration of any facilities storing more than 21,000 gallons of petroleum
product. Subject facilities not in compliance with these regulations should be
notified of their regulatory responsibility under this regulation. The team
should also notify the Division of Water Quality, groundwater section if such
facilities do not promptly come into compliance.
   (J)   Contingency plan.
      (1)   The primary person responsible for implementing the emergency
contingency plan is the Town Manager. The secondary (back-up) person
responsible for implementation is the Public Works Director.
      (2)   Should a major oil or chemical spill occur within the wellhead
protection area, appropriate emergency agencies will be notified. The first of
these would include the Fire Department and the County Emergency Coordinator.
         Fire Department 911
         Avery County Emergency Services
         (828) 733-8213
      (3)   Short term; less than 48 hours:
         (a)   The town operates one primary water storage tank with a total
storage capacity of 500,000 gallons. Its average daily usage is approximately
233,000 gallons, so it has the capacity to store enough water for two day’s
use. If power is lost to the wells, there is one stationary generator for
emergency operation of well #3 and one portable generator for well #5. All
water customers would be contacted and asked to conserve water until the
emergency is over.
         (b)   If evidence exists which indicates that a well is contaminated,
it will be immediately taken offline by turning off valves. An assessment will
be made to determine if contamination was the results of an act of vandalism or
terrorist and the appropriate authorities would be contacted. Also the well
would not be returned to service until it is determined that water quality from
the impacted well is in compliance with standards governing public water
supplies.
      (4)   Long term; greater than 48 hours: if one or more of the town wells
were to become contaminated, they would be taken off-line by shutting off
valves. If it were determined that contaminants had entered the distribution
system, residents would be notified by radio, TV, newspaper, door-hangers, and
the like not to drink the water until further notice.
      (5)   Appropriate officials like emergency management the National Guard
and any other pertinent personnel would be contacted to aid in supplying water.
      (6)   The regional office of the public water supply section would be
notified immediately of the situation and asked for assistance. Sampling (for
example, bacteriological, VOC’s, SOC’s, and the like) would begin to determine
the contaminant involved and the extent of contamination. A systematic flushing
of the distribution system would begin with follow-up sampling conducted as
needed until the system was determined to be free of contamination and in
compliance with standards governing public water supplies. After consultation
with the Public Water Supply Section, residents would be notified that the town
water was once again safe for consumption.
Emergency Contact Numbers and Additional Resources
Name Resource
Emergency Contact Numbers and Additional Resources
Name                                    Resource
Primary person responsible for
implementing emergency contingency plan Primary person
Rick Owen                                
Work: 828-898-5398                      Town Manager
Home: 828-387-2466
Cell: 828-387-2466
Secondary person and other pertinent    Secondary person
personnel
   Earl Turbyfill
Work: 828-898-5398                      Public Works Director
Home: 828-733-0235
Cell: 828-387-1550
   Justin Hodges
Work: 828-898-5398                      Water Resource Office
Home: 828-733-5680
Cell: 828-387-1052
   Braswell Well Drillers            Well driller
828-733-2602
   David Bissit                      Chemical Supplier
704-577-7884
   Gopher Utilities                  Control System
704-963-9064
   Quality Electric                  Electrical Contractor
828-898-6251
Local Resources                         Emergency Response
   Avery County Health Department     
828-733-1550
   Cannon Hospital                    
828-737-7000
   Avery County Sheriff               
911 or 828-733-5855
   Avery County Emergency Management  
828-733-8210
    Avery County Government Offices  
828-733-8201
Local newspaper and television          Public notification
   Avery Journal-Times               Newspaper
828-733-2448
   Mountain Television Network       Television station
828-262-0990
Public Water Supply Section
1634 Mail Service Center                Technical assistance regulatory
Raleigh, NC 27699-1634                  guidance
919-715-2853
NC Department of Environmental Quality, Regional Water Quality Section, Public
Asheville Regional Office               Water Supply Section, UST Section,
2090 US Hwy 70                          Aquifer Protection Section, Hazardous
Swannahoa, NC 28778                     Waste Section Spills, Regulatory
828-296-4900                            information and technical assistance
Department of Transportation
District Traffic Engineer
Mr. Michael Poe                         Emergency spill notification
1561 Mail Service Center
Raleigh, North Carolina 27699-1561
Local Office: 828-265-5380
NC Army National Guard                  Emergencies, as available:
Boone, NC 28560-2817                    Generators, 400-gallon water trailers,
                                        bottled water, transportation
NC Rural Water Association
Post Office Box 590                     Technical assistance education
Welcome, NC 27374
336-731-6963   
North Carolina Cooperative Extension
Service
Campus Box 7602
North Carolina State University         Educational brochures, publications
Raleigh, NC 27695-7602
919-515-2811
www.bae.ncsu.edu
Local number: 828-264-3061
US EPA Regional Office
AST/SPCC Program
Region IV
61 Forsyth Street                       Above ground storage tank information
Atlanta, GA 30365-3415
404-562-8761
www.epa.gov/oilspill
US EPA Regional Office
GW & UIC Section
Region IV
Atlanta Federal Center                  Educational brochures, publications
61 Forsythe St.
Atlanta, GA 30303-8960
www.epa.gov
Division of Environmental Assistance
and Customer Service
Ron Pridgeon
1639 Mail Service Center                Technical and non-regulatory assistance
Raleigh, NC 27699-1639                  to reduce waste
877-623-6748
http://deq.nc.gov/about/divisions/
environmental-assistance-customer-
service
National Small Flows Clearinghouse
West Virginia University
Post Office Box 6064                    Pamphlets, brochures, training aids
Morganton, WV 26506-6064
800-624-8301
www.nesc.wvu.edu/nsfc/nsfc_index.htm
 
   (K)   Public participation. The town will run a “public notification ad” in
Avery Journal-Times published in Newland, North Carolina. Once the ad has been
published, a copy of the ad and/or affidavit will be forwarded to the PWSS to
be added to the supporting documents. The ad will read as follows:
   Public Notice to All Banner Elk Water Customers
The town is pleased to announce that a draft copy of our wellhead protection
plan (WHPP) will be available from March 20 through April 10 for your review
and comment at the Town Hall, Banner Elk, Phone: (828) 898-5398. The plan is
designed to assist in safeguarding groundwater quality within Banner Elk
wellhead protection areas. All comments deemed substantive will be considered
for inclusion in the WHPP.
Rick Owen, Town Manager
Town of Banner Elk
   (L)   New public water supply wells. The town will amend its wellhead
protection plan to include any new well(s) added to its water system. The
following steps will be taken to address any new wells added to the water
system.
      (1)   Develop a preliminary WHPA for the proposed well to determine the
area of vulnerability;
      (2)   Develop a contaminant source inventory for the preliminary WHPA;
      (3)   Information obtained in subsections (1) and (2) above will be
submitted to the Wellhead Protection Committee (WPC). Any information required
by the Public Water Supply Section (PWSS) relating to the development and
construction of new public water supply (PWS) wells must also be submitted;
      (4)   If the WPC grants provisional approval of the proposed wellhead
protection plan, and the PWSS grants approval to construct or expand the PWS
well or well system, then work may proceed with well construction;
      (5)   Finalize the WHPA delineation for the new well;
      (6)   Finalize the contaminant source inventory for the WHPA;
      (7)   Submit finalized WHPA and contaminant source inventory to the WPC;
      (8)   Once approval is received, implement any necessary regulatory and
or non-regulatory potential source management practices; and
      (9)   Submit the amended WHP Plan and all necessary supporting
information to the public water supply section for review and approval.
   (M)   Future wellhead protection. The town is aware that an effective local
wellhead protection (WHP) program is an ongoing process requiring monitoring of
the wellhead protection areas (WHPA) and periodic review and updating of an
approved WHP plan. Therefore, the town’s WPC will monitor the wellhead
protection area (WHPA) for any new or previously unidentified potential
contaminant sources (PCS’s) and activities occurring within the approved WHPA.
The town will amend the PCS inventory and other plan components (such as, the
management strategies, emergency contingency plan, and the like) as necessary
to incorporate any new threats to the systems groundwater source of drinking
water. Additionally, the PCS inventory will be updated annually using the same
procedures used to develop the original PCS inventory. The town will also fully
update the WHP plan every five years or at any time a new well is constructed
for use with the water supply system or a major land use change occur within a
WHPA. The individual responsible for implementation of the WHP plan will submit
notification to the public water supply section annually upon completion of the
PCS inventory update or immediately following the completion of a major
revision. Any amended or revised sections of the approved WHP plan resulting
from an update or revision will also be submitted upon completion.
Appendix
References
North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Water Quality,
UST Section, Groundwater Section, Asheville Regional Office Files
Heath, Ralph C, Johnson, M. Gale. (2003). The North Carolina Wellhead
Protection Program Guide. North Carolina Public Water Supply Section
Glossary of acronyms and abbreviations
SWAP:  Source Water Assessment and Protection
EPA:   Environmental Protection Agency
DWQ:   Division of Water Quality
UST:   Underground Storage Tank
AST:   Aboveground Storage Tank
VOC:   Volatile Organic Compound
SOC:   Semi-Volatile Organic Compound
NCDEH: North Carolina Department of Environmental Health
PWS:   Public Water Supply
PWSS:  Public Water Supply Section
NCDEQ: North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality
WPC:   Wellhead Protection Committee
WHPP:  Wellhead Protection Program
WHPA:  Wellhead Protection Area
Gpm:   gallons per minute
GPD:   gallons per day
Ppm:   parts per million
Ppb:   parts per billion
CAP:   Corrective Action Plan
NOV:   Notice of Violation
PCS:   Potential Contamination Source
DWM:   Division of Waste Management
NPDES: National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
SPCC:  Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures
UIC:   Underground Injection Control
DEACS: Division of Environmental Assistance and Customer Service
 
Pollution Incident Summary
 
Incident:           #28220 and #28912
Address:            379 Shawneehaw Avenue
                    Banner Elk, NC 28604
                    The Pantry, Inc.
Owner and Operator: PO Box 8019
                    Gary, NC 27512
                    Phone: (919) 774-6700
                    Charles Von Canon
Property Owner:     PO Box 66
                    Banner Elk, NC 28604
 
In April 2004, a release from piping dispensers was detected from the UST
system (three, 10,000 gallon tanks) at The Pantry 250. A limited site
assessment was completed for this site and it was given a risk classification
of high by DENR UST Section. Monitoring wells sampled at the site indicated
levels of benzene and lead above the 2L standard. Toluene was detected in one
monitoring well but was not above the 2L standard.
In December of 2010, an unknown quantity of release from spill buckets was
discovered at The Pantry 250. A limited site check report was received by the
UST Section in the Asheville regional office on 1/26/2011. According to a
letter from the UST Section, the site was reclassified as intermediate on 5/25/
2011. Information provided indicates it is unlikely that the contamination will
affect the water supply wells due to the influence of the Shawneehaw Creek.
Potential Contamination Sources by Risk Category
Higher Risk Potential Contamination Sources for Ground Water PWS Systems
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL
Automobile body shops
   Gas stations
   Repair shops
Chemical /petroleum processing/storage
*Sewer lines
Utility right-of-way/pesticide use
Chemical/petroleum pipelines
Wood/pulp/paper processing and mills
Dry cleaners
Electrical/electronic manufacturing
Fleet/trucking/bus terminals
Furniture repair/manufacturing
Home manufacturing
Junk/scrap/salvage yards
Machine shops
Metal plating/finishing/fabricating
Mines/sand or gravel excavations
Parking lots/malls (>50 spaces)
Photo processing/printing
Plastics/synthetics producers
Research laboratories
OTHER
Road salt storage areas
Military installations (for classified risks not otherwise listed)
AGRICULTURAL/RURAL
Farm machinery repair
Rural machine shops
*Intensive livestock operations; lagoons, spray fields
Fertilizer, pesticide, and petroleum storage, distribution, handling, mixing,
and cleaning areas
*Sewage sludge (biosolids) storage, handling, mixing and cleaning areas
*Sewage sludge (biosolids) land application
Unauthorized/illegal disposal of wastes/chemicals
RESIDENTIAL/MUNICIPAL
Airports - maintenance/fueling areas
Railroad yards/maintenance/fueling areas
Landfills/dumps
Utility stations - maintenance areas
Septic systems - high density (>1/acre)
Sewer lines
Stormwater drains/discharges
Fertilizer, pesticide, sewage sludge
Notes:
1.   This is a list of potential sources of contamination not a list of town
databases of contaminants.
2.   Higher risk potential contaminant sources are considered to have a higher
potential for drinking water contamination than those designated moderate risk
or lower risk facility-specific management practices are not taken into account
in estimating risks and assigning these categories.
3.   An asterisk [*] indicates activities that may be associated with
microbiological contamination.
Moderate Risk PCSs
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL
Car washes
Cement/concrete plants
Food processing
Hardware/lumber/parts stores
AGRICULTURAL/RURAL
Auction lots
Boarding stables
Crops, irrigated (berries, Christmas trees, hops, mint, orchards, vineyards,
nurseries, greenhouses, vegetables, sod) condominiums
NOTE: Drip-irrigated crops are considered lower risks.
Drinking water treatment plant residuals/sludge application
RESIDENTIAL/MUNICIPAL
Drinking water treatment plants
Golf courses
Housing - high density (>1 house/. 5 acres)
Motor pools
Parks
Waste transfer/recycling stations
Wastewater treatment plants collection stations
OTHER
Above ground storage tanks
Construction/demolition areas
Hospitals
Transportation corridors
   Freeways/state highways
   Railroads
   Right-of-way maintenance
Lower Risk PCSs
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL
Office buildings/complexes
RV/mini storage
AGRICULTURAL/RURAL
Crops, non-irrigated (grains, grass seeds, hay)
*Rangeland
Managed forests/silviculture
RESIDENTIAL/MUNICIPAL
Apartments
Campgrounds/RV parks
Fire stations
Schools
Housing - low density (< 1 house/. 5 acres)
OTHER
Medical/dental offices/clinics
   Veterinary offices/clinics (herbicide use areas)
Irrigation, water supply, or monitoring wells
SOURCE: Adapted from EPA (1993), and from the Oregon Wellhead Protection
Program
Banner Elk WHPA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1511.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1513.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1515.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1517.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1519.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1521.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1523.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1525.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1527.png]
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 314)
§ 152.035 MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the town’s intent to remain proactive in new and
innovative ways of serving the public while providing for proper places for
these innovations to occur within zoning districts so as to protect the peace,
well-being, harmony and atmosphere of the town. The use of food trucks is an
appropriate use in some areas of the town and its extra-territorial
jurisdiction in certain districts and upon the compliance with certain
conditions as set forth herein. The town would like to allow for their use in
certain zoning districts in the corporate limits, as well as its ETJ, along
with certain conditions.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CO-OP ADVERTISING. Advertisement attached to or part of a vehicle that
advertises any thing other than the principal use and business of the vehicle.
      FOOD TRUCK. A licensed, motorized vehicle or mobile food unit that is
placed upon any premises within the town for the purpose of selling food items
to the general public.
      IMPROVED INDIVIDUAL PARCEL/MOBILE FOOD SITE. Any improved individual
parcel where mobile food vending is permitted to occur.
      MOBILE FOOD VENDING. Commercial food service sales conducted through use
of a food truck.
   (C)   Regulation of mobile food vending.
      (1)   Food trucks may operate as a permitted use within the C-2, C-1P, C-
1, M-E and G-O Zoning Districts only upon compliance with all requirements of
this section.
      (2)   All persons wishing to operate a food truck must provide to the
town written permission of the property owner to park and operate upon those
premises.
      (3)   Operation of a food truck shall only occur upon a paved parking
area. The location of a food truck must be at least ten feet from the edge of
any property lines or right-of-way in relation to the property, unless the
adjoining property owner agrees to a lesser limit.
      (4)    All food trucks shall be connected to a permanent power source.
The use of electric generators in relation to mobile food vending is
prohibited, unless operating on town owned property during special events.
      (5)   Food trucks shall locate trash receptacles and any other amenities
being offered within ten feet of the truck. Vendors shall remove any items
placed by them upon leaving each night. No outdoor storage shall be allowed.
Trash shall be removed each night and town trash receptacles shall not be used
by a mobile food vendor for purposes of waste disposal.
      (6)   Food trucks shall not be allowed to use amplified speakers,
microphones or bullhorns as part of their mobile food vending.
      (7)   All mobile food vendors shall obtain and maintain a permit from the
county’s Health Department and keep such posted in a conspicuous place during
hours of operation.
      (8)   Free-standing, temporary, sandwich board signage. Co-op advertising
is prohibited unless coop advertising is related to the nature of the items the
food truck is using and selling.
      (9)    The hours of operation for a food truck shall be limited to the
hours between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Food trucks may not remain after hours
upon the premises unless registered to participate in a special event
recognized by the town, or owned and operated on the premises of an existing
restaurant.
      (10)   Food trucks are not allowed within 50 feet of the main entrance of
a restaurant during business hours unless they are operating as an extended
part of that same restaurant, or with written permission from the restaurant
owner.
      (11)   Food trucks are not allowed within ten feet of a fire hydrant or
fire escape. Food trucks shall not be allowed to block driveways, sidewalks,
utility boxes, handicap ramps, access to loading/service areas, emergency
access or fire lanes, building entrances or exits, tree trunks or parking
spaces. Food trucks may park in shared parking spaces if said spaces are not
required to meet the minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance. Written
permission from property owner allowing parking spaces to be used in this
manner shall be provided to the town before the arrival of a food truck.
      (12)   Operators must be present at all times during hours of operation.
      (13)   A food truck shall not operate as a drive-through window.
      (14)   No mobile food vending shall cause parking problems, traffic
congestion, litter problems, or be used in a manner which creates a danger to
public health or safety.
   (D)   Violations. The penalty for violation of this section shall be as set
forth in §
152.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 316;
Ord. passed 8-8-2022)
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY RESOURCES
§ 152.050 INTENT.
   The town recognizes the progressive and changing needs for alternative
energy sources and wish to illustrate a desire to be proactive in addressing
these new sources. The goal is to preserves the health, safety and welfare of
the community’s citizens by promoting the safe, effective and efficient use of
active solar energy systems and systems used in the conversion of wind-powered
energy installed to reduce the on-site consumption of fossil fuels or utility-
supplied electric energy. The town’s goal of protecting its natural beauty is
an important consideration in the substance of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
§ 152.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION SYSTEMS, SMALL SCALE. Any device or
combination of devices or elements which rely upon direct sunlight as an energy
source, including, but not limited to, any substance or device which collects
sunlight for generating energy for residential use. The term shall include
passive and active solar systems.
   ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION SYSTEMS, UTILITY SCALE. Any device or
combination of devices or elements which rely upon sunlight as an energy
source, including, but not limited to, any substances or devices which collect
sunlight for generating energy primarily for selling and/or returning electric
energy to an electric distributor. Energy generated by this system may be used
to serve on site power needs as well. Location of such high impact use is
restricted to flat roofs and areas that cannot be seen from major
thoroughfares. This use is prohibited from slopes greater than 20% grade and
shall not cover more than 50% of a property.
   ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, tower and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of less than or equal to 100 kilowatts
and is intended to reduce on-site consumption of utility power. A system is
considered a small wind energy system only if it supplies electrical power for
on-site use with no intention of selling power back to the grid.
   ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, UTILITY SCALE. A wind energy
conversion system consisting of a wind turbine, tower and associated control or
conversion electronics with the intention of selling power back to the grid.
   ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT. A detailed examination of the applicant’s proposal
as it relates to the project’s local environment with an emphasis on avoiding,
minimizing and mitigating adverse impacts. An engineer licensed in the state
must provide an ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT.
   FALL ZONE. The National Academy of Sciences has recommended a height three
times the height of the tower as a setback from the nearest structure in order
to alleviate the concerns of safety and negative impact. It may be possible to
have a professional engineer calculate the specific FALL ZONE for where the
turbine could conceivably land if it were to topple. Additionally, the town’s
setback from both property lines and buildings that may lie on the same
property should exceed the FALL ZONE.
   MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT. Any device associated with a solar or wind powered
system, such as an outdoor electrical unit/control box that transfers the
energy to the intended on-site structure.
   OPERATOR. The entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of the wind energy facility.
   PARAPET WALL or CURTAIN WALL. A wall-like barrier at the edge of a roof
where extending above a roof, it may simply be a portion of the exterior wall
that continues above the line of the roof surface, or may be a continuation of
a vertical feature beneath the roof such as a fire wall. This outer covering is
non-structural and is used merely to keep the weather out or to be used as a
screening device. Because it is non-structural, it must be of like durability
as the other external building materials.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV). The technology that uses semiconductors to convert light
directly to electricity.
   SOLAR GLARE. The effect produced by light reflecting from a solar panel with
an intensity sufficient to cause annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual
performance and visibility.
   SOLAR ACCESS. A property owner’s right to have sunlight shine on the owner’s
land.
   SOLAR PANEL. A solar panel is a packaged, connected assembly of photovoltaic
cells that make up one unit. SOLAR PANELS are usually grouped together as
several units held together by a metal frame; called an ARRAY.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY. An electric generating facility, whose main purpose is
to supply electricity, consisting of one or more wind turbines and other
accessories.
   WIND POWER. The conversion of wind energy into another form of energy.
   WIND TURBINE or WINDMILL. A wind energy conversion system that converts wind
energy into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and may
include a nacelle, rotor, tower, guy wires and pad transformer.
   WIND TURBINE HEIGHT. The distance measured from grade at the center of the
tower to the highest point of the turbine rotor or tip of the turbine blade
when it reaches its highest elevation.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-13-2013; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
§ 152.052 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Submittal of a conditional use permit application as well as a site
specific development plan for all systems shall include the following
requirements of the Board of Adjustment:
      (1)   A plan denoting the dimensions of the subject property, proposed
location of solar panel(s), the arrangement of solar panels, distance from the
roof, pitch of the finished roof and distance from the proposed site
improvements to all property lines;
      (2)   The site plan should also show the required buffering as outlined
in §
152.088(C) of this chapter, while consideration should be made for reasonable
solar access;
      (3)   Submit horizontal and vertical elevation drawings to scale with
dimensions;
      (4)   Approved solar components: solar energy system components must have
a UL listing and must be designed with anti-reflective glare coating(s) to
minimize solar glare;
      (5)   Written authorization, when applicable, from the public utility
company acknowledging that it has been informed of the applicant’s intent to
install an interconnected customer-owned generator and that it also approves of
such connection(s);
      (6)   Compliance with state’s Building Code: all active solar energy
systems shall meet all requirements of the state’s Building Code and shall be
inspected by a County Building Inspector; and
      (7)   Compliance with National Electrical Code: all photovoltaic systems
shall comply with the National Electrical Code, current edition.
   (B)   All solar collection devices shall register with the Department of
Emergency Services and shall submit a map of the solar collection devices and
panel disconnect.
   (C)   Posting of a performance bond is required on the completed project and
must be done within ten days of approval. The amount shall be determined by an
engineer licensed in the state and approved by Town Council.
   (D)   If the applicant ceases operation of the energy project or begins, but
does not complete, construction of the project, the applicant shall restore the
site to its previous appearance. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owner to maintain any installed solar system. If failure to restore or
maintain, the town shall have the authority to cash in the performance bond and
perform the necessary work to restore the site.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
§ 152.053 ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION SYSTEMS, SMALL SCALE.
   (A)   (1)   General. Accessory solar energy collection systems, small scale,
shall be permitted as accessory uses in the residential zoning districts (R-1,
R-1-U, R-2) as roof-mounted systems to existing structures or facilities
provided they comply with minimum design standards outlined below. Ground-
mounted systems are prohibited. Compliance with applicable standards shall be
documented and shown on a site plan and submitted to the Zoning Administrator
along with a conditional use permit application for the appropriate review and
approval.
      (2)   Residential solar collection. An application for a proposed small
scale solar collector/energy system located at a residence must meet the
following standards as an accessory use.
         (a)   Roof-mounted solar collector systems shall meet the following
location standards: roof-mounted accessory solar collectors shall not extend
above the ridge-cap or exceed the 35 feet height restrictions of this chapter.
         (b)   The collector surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted
systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which
the system is mounted or built.
         (c)   Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to
extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure.
         (d)   Roof-mounted systems shall be located so as not to impede the
ability of emergency personnel to access the roof for fire-fighting purposes.
         (e)   Roof-mounted systems shall be mounted parallel to the roof at
the same pitch or no greater than 5% steeper than the roof.
         (f)   Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar
radiation or glare shall not be directed onto other properties or public access
areas.
         (g)   Mounting hardware and framing shall be non-reflective or matte
black in color.
         (h)   Approved solar components: solar energy system components must
have a UL listing and must be designed with anti-reflective glare coating(s) to
minimize solar glare.
   (B)   (1)   General. Accessory solar energy collection systems, small scale,
shall be permitted as an accessory use in zoning districts other than
residential (C-1, C-1P, C-2, M-U, M-E, RC, G-O, M-1) as roof-mounted systems to
existing structures or facilities provided they comply with minimum design
standards outlined below. Accessory solar energy collector systems shall not be
allowed in the Heritage District Overlay (HDO) unless approval is obtained from
the Preserve America Commission, the Planning Board and the Board of
Adjustment. Approval can be obtained through a conditional use permit
application accompanied by a proper site plan. Compliance with applicable
standards shall be documented and shown on a site plan and submitted to the
Zoning Administrator with a conditional use permit application for review and
approval. Ground-mounted systems are prohibited.
      (2)   Commercial energy solar collection. An application for a proposed
small scale solar collector/energy systems in zoning districts other than
residential must meet the following standards as an accessory use.
         (a)   Roof-mounted solar collector systems shall meet the following
location standards: roof-mounted accessory solar collectors shall not extend
above the ridge-cap or exceed the 35-foot height restriction of this chapter.
         (b)   The collector surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted
systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which
the system is mounted or built.
         (c)   Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to
extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure.
         (d)   Roof-mounted systems shall be located so as not to impede the
ability of emergency personnel to access the roof for fire-fighting purposes.
         (e)   Roof-mounted systems shall be mounted parallel to the roof at
the same pitch or no greater than 5% steeper than the roof.
         (f)   Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar
radiation or glare shall not be directed onto other properties or public access
areas.
         (g)   Sites where a flat roof is used to support the solar system must
be shielded from view by a parapet or curtain wall tall enough to shield the
panels and have a uniform look around the entire perimeter.
         (h)   Exterior electrical wires and conduit shall be kept as a
location to a side yard and any related conjunction boxes shall be shielded
from public view while maintaining access to mechanical equipment.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
§ 152.054 ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION SYSTEM, UTILITY SCALE (PRODUCTION
FOR RESALE).
   (A)   On a small scale, accessory use solar collectors in the zoning
districts of C-1, C-1P, C-2, RC, M-E, G-O, M-U and M-1 may be used for on-site
consumption as well as generating electrical energy for the purposes of resale
back to the energy grid.
   (B)   This type of use must meet the following standards as an accessory
use.
      (1)   Systems designed for on-site consumption and the possibility of
resale use shall be permitted on a flat roof only, no ground systems allowed.
      (2)   Systems shall be screened from public view by a parapet or curtain
wall around the entire perimeter of a flat roof, with consideration given to
maintenance and solar access.
      (3)   System panels shall be tilted in the optimal direction and shall
not exceed a 37-degree angle.
      (4)   Systems must be mounted on non-reflective or black matte frames to
help reduce glare to neighboring properties.
      (5)   System’s associated wiring and electrical boxes should be located
inside the building. If this is not possible, then they must be screened from
public access and public view, while allowing maintenance access for the
operator(s).
      (6)   System’s solar panels shall be placed such that the concentrated
solar radiation or glare shall not be directed onto other properties or public
access areas.
      (7)   Systems shall not cover more than 65% of a flat roof. This allows
for the calculation of other rooftop mechanical or electrical equipment and
solar access.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
§ 152.055 ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS, SMALL SCALE.
   (A)   General. Accessory wind energy conversion systems, small scale, shall
be conditional as an accessory use in the residential zoning districts (R-1, R-
1-U and R-2) as a single system whose main purpose is to supply electricity for
on-site consumption. It is essential that a site plan must first be submitted
in order to determine if a property is eligible for a wind energy conversion
system. Roof- mounted systems to existing structures or facilities are easier
to regulate provided they comply with minimum design standards outlined below.
Compliance with applicable standards shall be documented and shown on a site
plan and submitted to the Zoning Administrator along with a conditional use
permit application for review and approval by the Planning Board and the Board
of Adjustment.
   (B)   Residential wind energy conversion systems. A conditional use permit
application, as well as a site plan, denoting the dimensions of the subject
property for a proposed small scale wind energy conversion system located at a
residence must meet the following standards as an accessory use: roof-mounted
wind energy conversion systems shall meet the following location standards.
      (1)   Roof-mounted accessory wind energy conversion systems shall not
extend above the ridge-cap of the roof or exceed the 35 feet height
restrictions of this chapter.
      (2)   The wind energy conversion system and mounting devices for roof-
mounted systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the roof of
the building on which the system is mounted or built.
      (3)   Roof-mounted systems shall be located so as not to impede the
ability of emergency personnel to access the roof for firefighting purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
§ 152.056 ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS, UTILITY SCALE.
   (A)   Accessory wind energy conversion systems, utility scale, shall be
conditional as an accessory use in the Medical Educational Zoning District (M-
E) for the purpose of on-site consumption in addition to the resale of energy
back to the grid. The M-E Zoning District has large enough parcels to
accommodate this type of system with minimal impact to neighboring properties.
These systems require an environmental assessment by a professional engineer,
licensed in the state. The environmental assessment shall be submitted along
with a conditional use permit to the Zoning Administrator for review by the
Planning Board and the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All wind energy conversion systems shall be located within a protected
“fall zone”. The fall zone shall not have any other structures located within
the clearly defined area and the system shall be indicated on the site plan,
with distances from the proposed site improvements to all property lines. The
setbacks in this chapter are in addition to the fall zone calculation.
   (C)   Acceptable decibels (at the property line) should be no greater than
40dB.
   (D)   Clear cutting of property in order to install an accessory wind energy
conversion system shall not be allowed without special permission from the
town’s Planning Board and Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
§ 152.057 COMPLETION AND DECOMMISSIONING.
   Each accessory wind energy conversion system project must be completed
within 18 months. Should delays occur, the Zoning Administrator must approve an
extension at six-month intervals. Should a project cease operation as an
ongoing business entity, the site must be restored to the original agricultural
natural state. A plan must be filed with the Zoning Administrator within 180
days after cessation, outlining how the structure will be removed, the
timeframe in which the work will be done and the plan to return the property to
its pre-existing state. A date for final removal must be given and approved by
the Zoning Administrator in the plan.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 152.070 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   It is the intent of these regulations that adequate parking and loading
facilities shall be provided on private property in order to promote the public
safety, to lessen congestion in the public streets, and to help make possible
the full use of existing streets for traffic movement. Parking lots shall not
be focal points for development. Parking and site circulation should be created
behind buildings. To achieve these purposes, it is further intended that upon
the erection of any building or the use of any lot, there shall be provided on
the lot not less than the minimum space required herein. Compliance with these
requirements shall be a continuing responsibility.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 400)
§ 152.071 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on every
lot on which any of the following uses are hereinafter established; exception
may be made within the C-1 Central Business District when evidence is provided
by the applicant that adequate on-street or public parking is available. No
certificate of compliance will be issued upon completion of any building unless
all off-street parking and loading requirements, shown upon the plans or made
part of the zoning permit, shall be in place and ready for use and conforming
to the requirements.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 401)
§ 152.072 DIMENSIONS AND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Each parking space shall be not less than the dimensions provided
in the second table below. The number of parking spaces provided shall be at
least as great as the number specified in the first table below for various
uses.
      (2)   Parking areas shall be designed to accommodate the following
criteria.
         (a)   Unless no other practical alternative is available, parking
areas shall be designed so that, without resorting to extraordinary movements,
vehicles may exit such areas without backing onto a public street. This
requirement does not apply to driveways that serve single-family residential
units or duplexes.
         (b)   Parking areas of all developments shall be designed so that
sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles can serve such
developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances (greater
than 900 feet) or making other dangerous or hazardous turning movements.
         (c)   Parking area shall be designed so that vehicles cannot extend
beyond the perimeter of such area onto adjacent properties, public rights-of-
way, sidewalk or landscaped areas.
         (d)   Parking areas shall be graded and improved with either asphalt,
concrete or pave-blocks to provide a surface that is stable and minimizes dust.
Alternative pervious surfaces will be encouraged in areas where site
constraints permit. Storm water runoff shall be directed to grass catchment
areas (rain gardens or swales), or existing storm water systems, and allowed to
percolate into the soil to the maximum extent practicable. The town shall
review the proposed parking area and may require additional measures by the
applicant to reduce or mitigate any negative impacts of storm water runoff.
Exception: churches, theaters or assembly halls, whose peak attendance will be
at night or on Sundays, may be exempt from the requirement to pave or concrete
one-half of the parking spaces required; provided, the spaces are stabilized
with turf or gravel and maintained in good condition.
Required Parking
Use Minimum Parking Maximum Parking
Required Parking
Use                       Minimum Parking            Maximum Parking
                          2 spaces for each working
Automobile repair         bay, plus 1 space for each NA
                          employee
Bed and breakfast homes,  1 space for each           2 spaces for each
bed and breakfast inns,   accommodation, plus 1      accommodation, plus 1
motels and hotels         space for each 2 employees space for each 1 employee
                          1 space for each two
Car sales, outdoor        employees at maximum
equipment and machinery   employment on a single     NA
sales                     shift, plus 1 space for
                          each sales vehicle/
                          machinery
Churches, other religious 1 space for each 200       1 space for each 100
institutions and assembly square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
places of public assembly space directed to patron   space directed to patron
without fixed seats       use                        use
Churches, other religious 1 space for each 4 seats   1 space for each 2 seats
institutions and places   in the principal assembly  in the principal assembly
of public assembly with   room                       room
fixed seats
                          1 space for each 4
Colleges                  students, plus 1 space for NA
                          each faculty and staff
                          member
                          1 space for each company
Commercial nurseries      vehicle, plus 1 space for  NA
                          each 4 employees
Convenience stores
                          2 spaces for each gas
   With gas sales      pump, plus 2 spaces for    NA
                          each vehicle bay or
                          similar facility
                          1 space for each 300       1 space for each 150
   Without gas sales   square feet of store gross square feet of store gross
                          floor area                 floor area
Libraries, art galleries, 1 space for each 250
public buildings,         square feet of gross floor NA
professional business     space
offices and banks
                          4 spaces for each doctor
Medical and dental        or dentist practicing at   NA
offices and clinics       the office or clinic, plus
                          1 space for each employee
Offices - professional,   1 space for each 200
business or public,       square feet of gross floor NA
including banks           area
Other retail business not 1 space for each 300       1 space for each 200
specifically listed above square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
                          area                       area
Personal care services -  2 spaces for each employee NA
hair, nail, tanning
Residential care          1 space for each 6 patient
facilities, rest and      beds, plus 1 space for
convalescent homes, homes each staff or visiting     NA
for the aged and similar  doctor, plus 1 space for
institutions              each 4 employees
Residential dwellings,    2 spaces for each dwelling NA
multi-family              unit (to be rounded up)
Residential dwellings,    2 spaces for each dwelling NA
single-family and duplex  unit
Restaurants (carry-out/   3 spaces for customers,
delivery)                 plus 1 for each delivery   NA
                          vehicle
Restaurants and beverage  1 space for each 3 seats   1 space per 50 square feet
shops (dine-in)           in the restaurant          of gross floor area
Retail stores and         1 space for each 500       1 space for each 250
shopping centers (greater square feet gross floor    square feet of gross floor
than 10,000 sq. ft.)      space                      space
                          1 space for each staff
                          member and employee, plus
                          1 space for each 10
Schools, high and public  students. Spaces should be NA
                          calculated for the maximum
                          staff and students for
                          which the building is
                          designed
                          1 space for each classroom
Schools, kindergartens,   and each staff member and
elementary and junior     employee; sufficient       NA
high, as well as child    stacking room should be
care facilities           provided for child drop-
                          off and pick-up areas
                          To be determined by the    To be determined by the
Special use permit        Planning Board dependent   Planning Board dependent
applicants (for uses not  on this use, location of   on this use, location of
listed specifically in    and amount of property,    and amount of property,
this table)               topography, hours of       topography, hours of
                          operation                  operation
Warehouse and storage
facilities including
portions of facilities    1 space for each 750
used for storage;         square feet of floor area  NA
provided, the minimum     allocated exclusively for
area for storage and      warehouse or storage use
warehousing is 750 square
feet
 
PARKING SPACE AND AISLE DIMENSIONS
PARKING SPACE AND AISLE DIMENSIONS
Aisle width 0°        30°       45°           60°           90°
   One-wa13 ft.     11 ft.     13 ft.         18 ft.         24 ft.
   Two-wa19 ft.     20 ft.     21 ft.         23 ft.         24 ft.
PARKING STALL
Standard    22 ft. x 9 18 ft. x 9 18 ft. x 9 ft. 18 ft. x 9 ft. 18 ft. x 9 ft.
            ft.        ft.
Compact (a) 18 ft. x 8 16 ft. x 8 16 ft. x 8 ft. 16 ft. x 8 ft. 16 ft. x 8 ft.
            ft.        ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
(a) In parking areas containing 10 or more spaces, up to 20% of the parking
spaces may be designated for compact cars only. If such spaces are provided,
they shall be conspicuously designated as reserved for compact cars only
 
   (B)   Reduction on area and number of parking and loading spaces. No open
area in an off-street parking area shall be encroached upon by buildings,
storage or other use; nor shall the number of parking and loading spaces be
reduced, except after the submission of proof to the Zoning Administrator that,
by reason of reduction in floor area, seating capacity, number of employees or
change in other factors controlling the regulation of off-street parking
spaces, the proposed reduction is reasonable and consistent with the intent of
this chapter.
   (C)   Mixed uses. In the case of mixed uses, the total requirement for off-
street parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements of the various uses
computed separately and averaged.
   (D)   Setbacks.
      (1)   General location. All parking spaces required in this chapter shall
be setback at least five feet from any adjacent street right-of-way, and at
least eight feet from the edge of the street when no right-of-way exists beyond
the street. In no case shall the location of parking spaces obstruct the
visibility of a sight triangle, nor shall they be allowed within any setback
area unless granted a variance by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Parking location in the Heritage District Overlay. Parking spaces
shall be located to the side and/or rear of the associated buildings they
serve. Parking lots that serve as the principal use of a lot shall be exempt
from this requirement; however, parking spaces should be setback a minimum of
15 feet so as not to be a dominant feature of the streetscape.
   (E)   Designation of parking spaces. All parking spaces required in this
chapter shall be marked or designated by painted lines or an equivalent in a
paved parking lot, and by some permanent, fixed markers in unpaved lots.
   (F)   Shared parking.
      (1)   The owner or agent of a land use which requires off-street parking
spaces in accordance with this section may be permitted to provide a portion of
the required parking at an off-premises location (shared parking); provided,
the owner or agent can meet the following requirements.
         (a)   In the C-2, C-1P and M-U Zoning Districts and where a mix of
uses are incorporated into a minimum five-acre site, the required parking may
be reduced by a maximum of 25% in recognition of shared parking that occurs in
mixed use developments and then only on the approval of a conditional use
permit.
         (b)   All shared parking spaces shall be located within 400 feet of a
public entrance of the principal structure incorporating the use associated
with the required parking, or within 400 feet of the lot on which the use
associated with such parking is located if the use is not within a principal
building.
         (c)   The shared area shall be located in a commercial zoning
district.
         (d)   The owner or agent requesting use of the shared parking
provision shall provide written evidence that permission was granted by the
owner of the land to be used for shared parking. The written evidence shall
specify the number of spaces provided in the shared parking area, and that the
parking area meets the provisions of this chapter.
         (e)   The owner or agent requesting the use of shared parking shall
sign a statement accompanying the certificate of compliance that the validity
of the certificate is contingent upon the provision of the requisite number of
parking spaces. Reduction of the number of required parking spaces or other
violations of this section shall result in the revocation of the certificate of
compliance.
         (f)   The shared parking area shall be identified with one sign that
shall not exceed four square feet in area and four feet in height.
      (2)   In the C-2, C-1P and M-1 Zoning Districts and where a mix of uses
are incorporated into a minimum of five feet from adjacent street right-of-way,
and at least eight feet from the edge of the street when no right-of-way exists
beyond the street. In no case shall the location of parking spaces obstruct the
visibility of a sight triangle.
   (G)   Handicapped parking requirements. For all new and expanding
developments which require new parking facilities, handicapped parking shall be
provided in accordance with requirements of the state’s Building Code Volume l-
C, as revised.
   (H)   Driveways.
      (1)   Driveways serving multi-family, commercial or industrial
development shall be permitted in accordance with the standards of the state’s
Department of Transportation; provided, however, a commercial or industrial
development shall be limited to no more than two driveways on any one road and
no more than three driveways total. Additional driveways may be permitted when
reviewed by the Administrator and deemed that they are necessary to improve
traffic movement, increase sight distances or for other safety reasons.
      (2)   Developments shall share driveways with adjoining developments
where possible. In addition, adjoining uses shall provide safe and efficient
access to neighboring parking areas so vehicular traffic and pedestrians can
move directly to the adjoining use without first returning to the public right-
of-way or street. Driveways as a means of the only ingress and egress shall be
allowed in the setback areas as determined in §
152.028 of this chapter.
   (I)   Visibility at intersections. On a corner lot in any zoning district,
no planting, structures, sign, fence, wall or obstruction to vision more than
two and one-half feet in height measured from the centerline of the street
shall be placed or maintained within the triangular area formed by the
intersecting street right-of-way lines and a straight line connecting points on
said street right-of-way. The sight triangle, as required by the state’s
Department of Transportation, is illustrated below; however, this sight
triangle may be varied by the Administrator on town and private streets as
deemed necessary:
   (J)   Parking of tractor trailers or semi-trailers for storage. At no time
can a tractor trailer or semi-trailer be parked within view, with or without
the truck or tractor, in any zoning district in the town for the purpose of
storage of goods for retail, new or used. Individual utility trailers may be
used within the town as long as they are used for the specific purpose they
were designed for.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 6-11-2007; Ord.
passed 7-14-2008; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 401)
§ 152.073 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every lot on which a retail, service, trade, wholesale or industrial
use is hereinafter established shall provide space as indicated herein for the
loading and unloading of vehicles off the street or public alley. Such space
shall have access to an alley, or if there is no alley, to a street. For the
purpose of this section, an off-street loading space shall have minimum
dimensions of 12 feet by 40 feet.
   (B)   Required space shall be considered as follows:
 
Retail, service or trade business 1 space for each 5,000 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                  area
                                  Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum
Truck terminals                   number of trucks to be stored or to be loaded
                                  or unloaded at the terminal at any one time
Wholesale and industrial uses     1 space for each 10,000 sq. ft. of gross
                                  floor area
 
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 403)
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.085 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   It is the intent of this section to establish the architectural review
standards of the previously adopted Town of Banner Elk Architectural Review
Guidelines (1998). These standards shall apply to all new construction,
expansions and/or additions of 50% of the gross floor area of existing
buildings or changes to exterior building facades for multifamily and non-
residential development. Single-family detached residential uses and individual
duplexes are exempt from §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter (unless §
152.089 of this chapter applies), as are changes considered maintenance and
repairs to existing non-residential buildings; maintenance and repair is
defined as those changes that are considered upkeep and do not change the
architectural appearance of the building. The architectural review standards
shall hereby be incorporated as a reference to §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter, specifically with regard to illustrations.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-13-2015; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 500)
§ 152.086 SITE ASPECTS.
   (A)   Relationship of a building to its site.
      (1)   Building design shall be fitted to the natural contours of the
site. Natural features of the site, such as rock outcroppings or natural
drainage ways shall be preserved.
      (2)   On wooded sites, buildings shall be carefully situated to take
advantage of the shade and energy conservation provided by the trees.
      (3)   The impression of buildings tucked into, rather than superimposed
on, the natural landscape shall be created.
      (4)   The view of the building from the street and surrounding areas
shall be as important as the view available to the buildings occupants.
      (5)   Buildings shall be located according to the natural characteristics
of the site. In hilly terrain, clustering of buildings is encouraged as a
strategy to avoid destroying sensitive natural areas.
      (6)   Buildings shall be designed to harmonize with the existing
topography, thereby minimizing land disruption.
      (7)   Grading shall be held to a minimum and should complement natural
land forms (such as smooth gradations or terracing).
      (8)   Use of retaining walls over eight feet in height require design and
certification by a state- registered engineer.
   (B)   Relationships of the project to adjoining area.
      (1)   Building projects shall not be designed as isolated units, but
instead shall reflect the context of the adjoining properties.
      (2)   Grading shall blend gently with contours of adjacent properties.
      (3)   Buildings at the ends of streets, or at street corners, shall serve
as visual “terminals”. Serving to both unify and conclude the architectural
statement made on the street.
      (4)   Proposed recreation areas or uses shall complement nearby existing
uses. The extension of existing parks or recreation areas into a proposed
development is a highly desirable design feature.
      (5)   Buildings or projects located near or adjacent to a greenway shall
provide safe and efficient pedestrian connection to that greenway, and also to
adjacent properties that might include pedestrian systems in the future.
      (6)   Buffer zones shall separate and protect the greenway, while at the
same time connect it to the building site.
      (7)   Natural drainage patterns shall be preserved where possible.
Changing the natural drainage areas will affect the drainage onto adjoining
areas.
      (8)   Innovative building and site design can capitalize on natural
drainage ways and transform steep slopes into major site amenities.
      (9)   Design shall ensure that drainage occurs only in areas designed to
serve a drainage function. Storm water should not flow over sidewalks, paths or
streets.
   (C)   Streetscape.
      (1)   Scale is a major factor in creating a sense of community and a
sense of place.
      (2)   The ratio between the width of the street corridor (as measured
between opposing building facades) and the height of the “walls” of that
corridor (the foundation-to-eaves dimension) plays an important role in
creating a human scale in the streetscape. The most satisfactory ratio is
generally a width that is two or three times the height of the defining walls
or edges. If the width exceeds the height more than four times the sense of
enclosure is diminished.
      (3)   The town shall be focused on people rather than on vehicles.
Streets shall be connections not separations.
      (4)   Reference “zones” of § 6.3.1 of the Architectural Review Guidelines
for explanation of zones and transition areas that shall be addressed in the
design of new streets.
      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/IMAGES/0-0-0-1529.png]
      (5)   Especially in the downtown area, and Heritage District Overlay,
building faces shall have adequate setback from the street edge to allow for
sidewalks where people may walk leisurely around meeting places. Public spaces
between buildings (including room for planting and street furniture) provide
places for the pedestrian to rest and relax.
      (6)   Between sidewalk and street, there shall be enough room to
accommodate the planting of trees and shrubs (see §§
152.130 through
152.137 and
152.150 through
152.170 of this chapter). The street will be enclosed, pedestrians will be
separated from the cars and the view will be framed.
      (7)   Street furniture should complement the overall site and landscape
design. It shall reflect the natural mountain character of the town, such as
the use of wood and stone for benches, trash receptacles and the like.
   (D)   Streets.
      (1)   Difficult topography shall be avoided when locating and designing
roads. For instance, roads are best placed along the contours of a site if the
site is hilly or steep. This minimizes fuel consumption and noise in
automobiles and provides a more comfortable access for pedestrians and bicycle
riders. Consideration shall also be given to fire protection and emergency
vehicles in order to facilitate access to any structure in case of any
emergency.
      (2)   Roadways shall focus attention on interesting views and should not
interfere with natural drainage patterns.
      (3)   The town uses the state’s Department of Transportation Subdivision
Roads Minimum Construction Standards to suggest parameters for new streets.
These standards may need to be adjusted, especially in areas of difficult
topography with steep slopes.
      (4)   The site plan should incorporate a hierarchy of roadways and
walkways that provide for safe, smooth and pleasant movement of people and
vehicles. Special attention shall be paid to points at which pedestrian,
bicycle and automobile movements are in conflict. Clearly marked crosswalks or
routing of pedestrian paths away from main automobile traffic areas can reduce
hazards in these areas.
      (5)   Whenever there is a design choice between access from the
development to a street of a higher classification and access to a street of a
lower classification, access should be to the street of lower classification.
      (6)   On large streets, landscaped median islands are encouraged and
crosswalks shall be included.
      (7)   Trees, shrubs and other plants shall be planted along the streets
in accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.137 and
152.150 through
152.170 of this chapter.
   (E)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Building sites shall accommodate pedestrians and shall be centered
around pedestrian traffic rather than vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Access must be safe and convenient within a site. Sidewalks must be
clearly separated from driving areas and must connect buildings to each other,
to parking areas and to adjacent pedestrian paths.
      (3)   Handicapped accessibility along walkways at street/driveway
intersections shall be provided whenever possible, per State Building Code
specifications.
      (4)   Sidewalk construction standards (including curb and gutter) shall
follow the state’s Department of Transportation Subdivision Roads Minimum
Construction Standards.
      (5)   Walkways or sidewalks shall be provided along all public streets
for commercial developments. Where intersections occur, pedestrian walkways
shall be clearly marked with paint or contrasting surface material.
      (6)    Sidewalks shall be designed to match the Town of Banner Elk
Pedestrian Plan. Should it prove impractical or infeasible to construct on the
property in question, then an equitable fee in lieu shall be paid to the Town
of Banner Elk to be used in other areas of the Town's Pedestrian Plan. The fee
shall be calculated by the linear footage of road frontage where the sidewalk
should have been placed and the current rate to construct that amount of
sidewalk shall be determined adequate by the Board of Adjustment.
      (7)   The separation of sidewalks from the roadway for pedestrians safety
will be achieved by:
         (a)   Curbside planting strips;
         (b)   Depressing or raising the walkway in relation to street level;
and
         (c)   Providing parking adjacent to the walkway (on-street parking) as
an additional barrier.
      (8)   Especially around areas with interesting natural features,
sidewalks shall be curved, bending into adjoining lands, following the natural
contours.
      (9)   Major commercial developments shall include a system for internal
pedestrian movement. These internal walkways shall also be linked with town-
wide systems, particularly to greenways and parks.
      (10)   Covered sidewalks are especially encouraged, as well as the
development of public spaces with a pedestrian system like courts and gardens.
      (11)   Surfaces shall be constructed of brick when located within the
Heritage District Overlay; other materials such as concrete may be permitted in
the other zoning districts.
      (12)   Semi-pervious or pervious material as opposed to asphalt or
concrete is especially desirable on sidewalks, to the extent they do not
diminish the accessibility of the pathway. If concrete is used, it should be
textured or patterned with sections that shall include a brick pattern that
matches the Banner Elk Pedestrian Plan.
      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/IMAGES/0-0-0-1531.png]
   (F)   Bicycles.
      (1)   Bike lanes or sufficient room on the streets for bicyclists are
very desirable. However, bike lanes do not have to parallel the street. Like
sidewalks or walkways they should follow natural patterns.
      (2)   Businesses and organizations should recognize the needs of cyclists
who may bicycle to work. These cyclists need convenient use of a bicycle rack.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 500)
§ 152.087 LIGHTING TRESPASS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Design and intensity of lighting shall be architecturally
integrated with the building style, material and color. Lighting shall be
designed and located to ensure that excessive light spillage and glare,
especially toward neighboring areas and motorists, are avoided. All parking and
street lighting provided shall be aimed downward and provide shield covers to
direct light in such a manner.
      (2)   Down lighting shall be used to reinforce the circulation corridor.
Pedestrian scale lights, such as ornamental poles, shall be used on sidewalks
instead of street lights; street lights shall match existing town streetscape
lights. Low light sources should be used on other walking paths and greenways.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIXTURE. The assembly that holds the lamp (bulb) in the lighting system.
It includes the elements designed to give light output control, such as a
reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast, housing and the attachment
parts.
      FLOODLIGHT. A luminaire or bulb which projects light in a specific
direction in a wide beam, typically 100 degrees or more.
      FOOTCANDLE. The American unit used to measure the total amount of light
cast upon a surface (illuminance). One footcandle is equivalent to the
illuminance produced by a source of one candle at a distance of one foot. For
example, the full moon produces .01 S. “S” are measured with a light meter. One
footcandle is approximately equal to ten lux, the British unit used to measure
illuminance.
      FULL CUTOFF (FCO). A light fixture that cuts off all upward transmission
of light.
      FULLY SHIELDED. A fixture with housing or attachment thereto which
prevents a line of sight to the bulb when viewed from another property and
which prevents a line of sight to any part of the light source at or above a
horizontal plane running through the lowest portion of the fixture.
      GLARE. Discomfort experienced by an observer with a direct line of sight
which often results in annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual performance
causing visual impairment.
      HORIZONTAL (OR VERTICAL) FOOTCANDLES. The amount of light striking a
vertical or horizontal plane.
      IESNA. Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
      LIGHT SOURCE. The bulb and lens, diffuser or reflective enclosure.
      LIGHT TRESPASS. Light projected onto a property from fixtures not located
on that property.
      LUMEN. The unit used to quantify the amount of light energy produced by a
lamp at the lamp. Lumen output of most lamps is listed on the packaging. For
example, a 60-watt incandescent lamp produces 950 lumens while a 55-watt low
pressure sodium lamp produces 8,000 lumens.
      NEON SIGNS. Luminous tube sign that contains neon or other inert gasses
at a low pressure.
      SPOTLIGHT. A luminaire or bulb which projects light in a specific
direction in a narrow beam, typically 45 degrees or less.
   (C)   Regulation.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install,
erect or maintain any floodlight, searchlight, security light or other form or
type of light source within the limits of the town in such manner that the
light rays from this lighting fail to conform with the terms and conditions of
this section, and that the light thereof may distract the attention of any
vehicle driver from the operation of a vehicle in a safe and prudent manner.
      (2)   On all properties except those zoned R1 and R2, the installation or
replacement of any outdoor lighting fixtures shall require approval. Approval
may not be issued unless the proposed installation is found by the Zoning
Administrator to conform to all applicable provisions of this section.
      (3)   All properties within the town and the ETJ must comply with the
terms of this section.
   (D)   Light trespass. The maximum illumination at five feet inside an
adjacent residential parcel or public right-of-way, or beyond, from light
emitted from an artificial light source, is 0.05 horizontal footcandles and
0.05 vertical footcandles. This illumination likewise measured inside an
adjacent commercial or industrial parcel or on a public roadway, or beyond,
shall not exceed 0.1 horizontal footcandles or 0.1 vertical footcandles. No
line of sight to a glaring light source is permitted from five feet or more
inside a residential or public right-of-way property line by an observer
viewing from a position that is level with or higher than the ground below the
fixture. Compliance is achieved with fixing shielding, directional control
designed into the fixture, fixture location, fixture height, fixture aim or a
combination of these factors.
   (E)   General lighting design.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The bulbs in outdoor light fixtures emitting from 600 to 1,200
lumens shall be frosted glass or covered by frosted glass or other similarly
translucent cover. An outdoor light fixture emitting more than 1,200 lumens,
except motion detector-activated lighting shall be full cutoff and fully
shielded to an observer at the property line. This can be achieved with fixture
location, mounting height, natural artificial barriers on the fixture owner’s
property, fixing shielding and other fixture design features.
         (b)   A spotlight of less than 1,800 lumens need not be full cutoff or
covered by a translucent cover if its center beam is aimed at a point not
beyond any property lines and no higher than 45 degrees below the horizontal,
and is motion detector-activated and cycles off after five minutes.
         (c)   Generally, luminaries should not be located closer to the
property line than a distance equal to three times the fixture’s mounting
height above grade at the property line.
         (d)   The use of search lights, laser lighting or lights that pulse,
flash, rotate or stimulate motion for advertising or promotions is prohibited.
         (e)   Emergency lighting and traffic control lighting is exempt.
         (f)   Tower lighting shall not be permitted unless required by FAA.
Required lighting shall be of the lowest allowed intensity and red unless
specifically forbidden under FAA requirements.
         (g)   At the close of business, all lighting shall be reduced to a
level not greater than those described in division (D)(5) below.
         (h)   With the exception of structures having exceptional symbolic
significance in the community such as churches and/or public buildings of
historic significance in the community, exterior buildings and other vertical
structures shall not be illuminated. When buildings and other structures having
symbolic or historic significance are to be illuminated, the design for the
illumination must be approved by the Preserve America Commission.
      (2)   Buildings and other vertical structures.
         (a)   The maximum illumination on any vertical surface or angular roof
surface shall not exceed five footcandles.
         (b)   Lighting fixtures shall be carefully located, aimed and shielded
so that light is directed only onto the building surface. Lighting fixtures
shall not be directed toward adjacent streets or roads.
         (c)   Lighting fixtures mounted on the building and designed to “wash”
the building surface with light are preferred.
         (d)   To the extent practicable, lighting fixtures shall be directed
below the horizontal rather than above the horizontal.
      (3)   Landscaping. When landscaping is to be illuminated, the Planning
Board shall first approve a landscape lighting plan that presents the purpose
and objective of the lighting, shows the location of all lighting fixtures and
what landscaping each is to illuminate and demonstrates that the installation
will not generate excessive light levels, cause glare or direct light beyond
the landscaping into the night sky.
      (4)   Externally illuminated signs. (Also see §
152.110 of this chapter.)
         (a)   The average level of illumination on the vertical surface of the
sign shall not exceed three footcandles, and the ratio of average to minimum
illumination shall not exceed two to one (2:1).
         (b)   Lighting fixtures illuminating signs shall be carefully located,
aimed and shielded so that light is directed only onto the sign facade.
Lighting fixtures shall not be aimed toward adjacent streets, roads or
properties.
         (c)   Light fixtures illuminating signs shall be of a type such that
the light source is not directly visible from adjacent streets, roads or
properties.
         (d)   To the extent practicable, fixtures used to illuminate signs
shall be top-mounted and directed below the horizontal.
      (5)   Parking lot lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed to
provide the minimum lighting necessary to ensure adequate vision and comfort in
parking areas, and to not cause glare or direct illumination onto adjacent
properties or streets.
         (a)   All lighting fixtures serving parking lots shall be cut-off
fixtures.
         (b)   Mounting heights of lighting fixtures shall not exceed 20 feet.
         (c)   The minimum overall illumination level shall be no less than 0.4
footcandles. The ratio of the average illumination to the minimum illumination
shall be four to one (4:1).
         (d)   The maximum overallaverage illumination level shall not exceed
one and one-half footcandles.
      (6)   Lighting levels on exterior display/sales areas.
         (a)   Lighting levels on exterior display/sales areas shall be
adequate to facilitate the activities taking place in these locations during
business hours. Lighting of these areas shall not be used to attract attention
to the businesses, but rather the merchandise. Signs allowed under local
ordinances are to be used for the purpose of advertising a business.
         (b)   The applicant shall designate areas to be considered display/
sales areas and areas to be used as parking or passive vehicle storage areas.
This designation must be approved by the Planning Board.
            1.   Areas designated as parking or passive vehicle storage areas
shall be illuminated in accordance with the requirements for parking areas
suggested elsewhere in this section.
            2.   Areas designated as exterior display/sales areas shall be
illuminated so that the average horizontal illuminance at grade level is no
more than five footcandles. The ration of average to minimum illuminance shall
be no greater than four to one (4:1). The average and minimum shall be computed
for only that area designated as exterior display/sales area.
            3.   Light fixtures shall be full cut-off fixtures and shall be
located, mounted, aimed and shielded so that direct light is not cast onto
adjacent streets or properties.
            4.   Fixtures shall be mounted no more than 20 feet above grade and
mounting poles shall be located either inside the illuminated area or no more
than ten feet away from the outside edge of the illuminated area.
      (7)   Lighting of walkways/bikeways and parks. Where special lighting is
to be provided for walkways, bikeways or parks, the following requirements
shall apply.
         (a)   The walkway, pathway or ground area shall be illuminated to a
level of no more than 0.5 footcandles.
         (b)   The vertical illumination levels at a height of five feet above
grade shall be no more than 0.5 footcandles.
         (c)   Lighting fixtures shall be designed to direct light downward,
and light sources shall have an initial output of no more than 1,000 lumens.
      (8)   Lighting of gasoline stations/convenience store aprons and
canopies. Lighting levels on gasoline station/convenience store aprons and
under canopies shall be adequate to facilitate the activities taking place in
those locations. Lighting of these areas shall not be used to attract attention
to the businesses. Signs allowed under local ordinance are to be used for that
purpose.
         (a)   Areas on the apron away from the gasoline pump islands used for
parking or vehicle storage shall be illuminated in accordance with the
requirements for parking areas set forth elsewhere in this section. If no
gasoline pumps are provided, the entire apron shall be treated as a parking
area.
         (b)   Areas around the pump islands and under canopies shall be
illuminated so that the minimum horizontal illuminance at grade level is no
more than 5.5 footcandles. The ratio of average to minimum illuminance shall be
no greater than four to one (4:1). This yields an average illumination level of
no more than 22 footcandles.
         (c)   Light fixtures mounted on canopies shall be recessed so that the
lens cover is recessed or flush with the bottom surface of the canopy and/or
shielded by the fixture or the edge of the canopy so that light is restrained
to no more than 85 degrees beyond the vertical plane.
         (d)   As an alternative to recessed ceiling lights, indirect lighting
may be used where light is beamed upward and then reflected down from the
underside of the canopy. In this case, light fixtures must be shielded so that
direct illumination is focused exclusively on the underside of the canopy.
         (e)   Lights shall not be mounted on the top or sides of the canopy
and the sides of the canopy shall not be illuminated.
      (9)   Lighting of outdoor facilities. Outdoor nighttime facilities
(concerts, athletic contests and the like) have unique lighting needs.
Illumination levels vary, depending on the nature of the activity. The
regulations in this section are intended to allow adequate lighting for such
events while minimizing sky glow, reducing glare and unwanted illumination of
surrounding streets and properties and reducing energy consumption. The design
plan shall include a discussion of the lighting requirements of various areas
and how those requirements will be met.
   (F)   Site plans. (Also see §§
152.031 and
152.301 of this chapter.)
      (1)   (a)   Outdoor lighting installations involving the installation or
replacement of two or fewer lighting fixtures may be approved by the Zoning
Officer; provided that, no single lamp exceeds 150 watts, and that the total
wattage of all bulbs in all fixtures does not exceed 300 watts. All other
installations must be approved by the Planning Board.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit to the town sufficient information,
in the form of an overall exterior lighting plan, to enable the town to
determine that the applicable provisions will be satisfied.
      (2)   The lighting plan shall include at least the following items:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to scale of 1 inch equals no more than 20
feet, showing buildings, landscaping, parking areas and all proposed exterior
lighting fixtures;
         (b)   Specifications for all proposed lighting fixtures including
photometric data, designation as full cut-off fixtures and other descriptive
information on the fixtures;
         (c)   Proposed mounting height of all exterior lighting fixtures;
         (d)   Analyses and illuminance level diagrams showing that the
proposed installation conforms to the lighting level standards in this section;
and
         (e)   Drawings of all relevant building elevations showing the
fixtures, the portions of the wails to be illuminated, the illuminance levels
of the walls and the aiming points for any remote light fixtures.
      (3)   (a)   Wherever practicable, lighting installations shall include
timers, dimmers and/or sensors to reduce overall energy consumption and
eliminate unneeded lighting.
         (b)   When an outdoor lighting installation is being modified,
extended, expanded or added to, the entire outdoor lighting installation shall
be subject to the requirements of this section.
         (c)   Expansions, additions or replacements to outdoor lighting
installations shall be designed to avoid harsh contrasts in color and/or
lighting levels.
         (d)   Electrical services to outdoor lighting fixtures shall be
underground, unless the fixtures are mounted directly on utility poles.
         (e)   Proposed lighting installations that are not covered by the
special provisions in this section may be approved only if the Planning Board
finds that they are designed to minimize glare, do not direct light beyond the
boundaries of the area being illuminated or onto adjacent properties or
streets, and do not result in excessive lighting levels. In general IESNA
standards shall be used to determine the appropriate lighting design.
         (f)   For the purpose of these regulations, the mounting height of a
lighting fixture shall be defined as the vertical distance from the grade
elevation of the surface being illuminated to the bottom of the lighting
fixture.
         (g)   The Planning Board may modify the requirements of this section
if it determines that, in so doing, it will not jeopardize achievement of the
intent of these regulations.
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The temporary use of low wattage or low voltage lighting for public
festivals, celebrations and the observance of holidays is exempt from this
section, except where they create a hazard or nuisance from glare. However,
consideration to light trespass requirements shall be demonstrated prior to
commencing the use of the temporary lighting.
      (2)   All other lighting existing or installed on the date of this
section which does not conform with this section shall be exempt under the
following conditions.
         (a)   The exemption shall expire seven years after the adoption date
of this section.
         (b)   Lighting found by a governmental agency to create a public
hazard can be ordered removed or altered at any time.
         (c)   On the effective date of this section, any light installation
which provides for re-aiming of the fixture shall be brought into compliance
with the terms of this section without delay.
         (d)   Upon repair or replacement of any component of any luminaire, or
relocation of any luminaire, that luminaire shall be brought into compliance
with the terms of this section at the completion of the repair or replacement.
         (e)   Upon installation of any new luminaire, this section shall fully
apply. An inventory of existing lighting submitted by the applicant will be
required when the application for installing new luminaire(s) is made.
         (f)   Upon the transfer of ownership of an existing business or
property, the exemption shall expire and all terms of this section shall apply.
         (g)   At the close of business all lighting shall be reduced to a
level not greater than those described in division (D)(5) below.
   (H)   Street lighting.
      (1)   Street lighting owned, operated, maintained or leased by the town
shall be exempt, understanding that a good-faith effort shall be made to comply
with the following conditions.
         (a)   All new, repaired or replaced shall be full cut-off fixtures and
that IESNA guidelines shall be considered. However, the design for an area may
suggest the use of street light fixtures of a particular period or
architectural style as an alternative if the following items are considered:
            1.   The maximum initial lumens generated by each fixture does not
exceed 2,000;
            2.   The mounting height of the alternative fixture does not exceed
15 feet; and
            3.   That alternative lighting be approved in a public hearing in
accordance herewith. Public comment regarding the alternative lighting standard
will be considered at that time.
         (b)   Street lights shall be located in the public right-of-way or on
easements acquired for that purpose.
         (c)   If the street has a sidewalk along one side, the street lights
will generally be limited to the sidewalk side of the street.
      (2)   (a)   Street lighting which causes light to trespass onto or into a
neighboring parcel and causes an annoyance or disturbs the person(s) who owns
the neighboring parcel shall seek relief through the Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold a hearing on the matter in a
meeting published in accordance with §
152.269 of this chapter. The complaint and possible solution will be considered
at that time.
      (3)   A person who installs or causes to be installed various forms and
types of lights as described heretofore in violation of this section and is
subject to penalties outlined in §
152.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 501.7)
§ 152.088 BUILDING DESIGN.
   The following elements of building design shall be incorporated in new
construction and renovations as noted in §
152.085 of this chapter.
   (A)   Scale. Scale and proportion should reflect local traditions of
mountain buildings. They should be oriented to the characteristic, simple
residential buildings of the town. Texture of roof and wall finishes shall
provide a scale or reference point for the pedestrian in proximity to the
structure. In the C-2, M-E and M-U Districts, where structures already exist on
a subject property. The maximum wall height of any new structure connected to
existing structures shall not exceed the highest wall of the existing
structure.
      (1)   Allowed.
         (a)   Thirty-five feet height maximum from average natural grade to
roof (ridge height); existing contours shall be provided on the plat or site
plans as part of the zoning permit application. Take the smallest rectangle
inside the footprint and find the midpoint of each wall. The spot where each of
these lines intersect is the point where the measurement will be taken for the
height of the building; (See illustration on how to calculate the height of a
building.)
         (b)   In areas where additional fill is needed in order to bring the
height of a property up to a standard required by the ordinance, the height of
a building would be measured from the center point of the location of the
building beginning at finished grade. When constructing in a floodplain area,
finished grade shall be defined as the minimum base flood elevation, plus
ordinance defined freeboard;
         (c)   Harmony with landscape and surroundings;
         (d)   Residential scale;
         (e)   Structures using rectangular configurations;
         (f)   Street front having sense of entry;
         (g)   Use of stepbacks and architectural elements (windows, stairs,
etc) to break up large masses of buildings;
         (h)   Pedestrian-oriented scale;
         (i)   Covered walkways;
         (j)   Canopies; and
         (k)   Planned Residential and Commercials Developments in the M/U with
connections to existing tall buildings (over 35 feet) allow for the principal
building to be 60% of the footprint and any additional interconnected buildings
cannot exceed the footprint by 40%, making the total footprint 100%.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1533.png]
      (2)   Prohibited.
         (a)   Square or rectangular buildings in excess of 50,000 square foot
of gross floor area, when constructed on an individual lot(s) and are not a
part of a planned commercial or planned residential development containing less
than three buildings in the C-2, M-E or M-U Zoning District;
         (b)   Continuous flat facades;
         (c)   A-frame buildings;
         (d)   Round buildings; and
         (e)   Geodesic domes.
   (B)   Exterior materials. Materials shall be selected for suitability to
architectural style. For the mountain village character of the town, this means
using natural traditional materials such as wood and native stone. All sides of
a building should relate to each other. The front should not look substantially
different from the other sides. The number of different materials on exterior
finishes should be limited.
      (1)   Allowed.
         (a)   Use of materials native to mountain area;
         (b)   Wood siding (painted, stained or weathered);
         (c)   Wood shingles/shakes;
         (d)   Native stone;
         (e)   True log construction;
         (f)   Log siding;
         (g)   Exposed wood structural members;
         (h)   Related trims;
         (i)   Where materials change, there should be a change in wall plane
or some architectural device to give sense of transition;
         (j)   Cultured stone;
         (k)   Bark siding;
         (l)   Brick (allowed as accents for areas of detail - then, the brick
shall be of constant color and of the wood mold type, no blends);
         (m)   Stucco, for two feet above grade only, or allowed as an accent
for areas of detail;
         (n)   All ASTM approved cement board, at the discretion of the
Architectural Review Committee or per requirement of the state’s Fire Code; and
         (o)   ASTM-approved commercial grade vinyl siding in the C-2 Zoning
District only. (Siding must be a minimum of .044 inch grade and must be
installed by someone who is certified by VSI or by a similar institution,
manufacturer or supplier.)
      (2)   Prohibited.
         (a)   Stucco, as an entire wall exterior finish;
         (b)   Mix of materials unrelated to architectural form/structure;
         (c)   Pre-form metal siding;
         (d)   Exposed or painted concrete block;
         (e)   Vinyl siding;
         (f)   Artificial brick;
         (g)   Reconstituted or manufactured wood materials;
         (h)   Synthetic stucco;
         (i)   T1-11 siding (plywood);
         (j)   Split face block; and
         (k)   Non-ASTM approved cement board.
   (C)   Roofs. Roofs are a major visible element and shall be compatible with
both buildings and neighboring buildings architectural style. Similarities in
roof type create a visual continuity in the streetscape and neighborhood. Roof
shape, color and texture should be coordinated with the treatment of the
buildings perimeter walls. Roofs with more than one plane, and containing
dormers, add variety to a building and break-up its size. Roofs outside of the
allowed pitch slope may need to apply for a variance considering the type of
building and how the slope would make the building look.
      (1)   Allowed.
         (a)   Any pitched roof must be 6/12 to 12/12 slope;
         (b)   Large overhangs (minimum one foot);
         (c)   Fascia eight inches minimum and/or exposed rafter tails;
         (d)   Gable or hip roofs;
         (e)   Large roof areas should have more than one plane and be broken
up with dormers;
         (f)   Roof pitches over porches and ancillary structures should be in
keeping with principal building (minimum 3/12);
         (g)   Flat roofs with parapet only in zoning districts C-2, M-1, M-
U and M-E; and
         (h)   Rooftop equipment specifications:
            1.   Screen rooftop mechanical, electrical and energy equipment
from view of people on street;
            2.   Energy collection equipment on street side is allowed when
mounted on roofs with pitch, of similar color, and are mounted flush with the
roof;
            3.   Grouping together of utility structures (vents, ducts and the
like) and painted to match adjacent building surface;
            4.   Exposed gutters and downspouts painted to match adjacent roof
or wall material;
            5.   Earth tone colors for roof materials;
            6.   Traditional roof materials;
            7.   Wood shakes/slate/metal roofs/fiberglass shingles/concrete
tiles;
            8.   Same materials on all principal parts of the roof; and
            9.   Asphalt composition shingles (artificial slate).
      (2)   Prohibited.
         (a)   Flat roofs, with exception noted above;
         (b)   Shed, gambrel, mansard roofs;
         (c)   Low slopes (under 6/12) for main roof;
         (d)   Very steep slopes (over 12/12);
         (e)   Overhangs less than one foot;
         (f)   Brightly colored and unnatural looking roof material;
         (g)   Roll felt roofing; and
         (h)   Corrugated plastic sheet material.
   (D)   Windows. Windows are the most important architectural element to unify
a facade. They reflect the character of a building. However, windows not only
add to the aesthetics of a building, but also have to provide light and
ventilation.
      (1)   Allowed.
         (a)   Traditional shapes (forms of square, arches or rectangle);
         (b)   Forms of residential scale;
         (c)   Multi-plane windows (use of muntins to divide glass into unified
sections);
         (d)   Vertical windows;
         (e)   Separate large windows (also for storefront windows);
         (f)   Separate large windows (including storefront) by columns;
         (g)   Accentuated by trim work; and
         (h)   Shutter specifications:
            1.   Should measure full height and half the width of all window;
and
            2.   Traditional horizontal slats (wood).
      (2)   Prohibited.
         (a)   Horizontal windows;
         (b)   Large undivided panes of glass;
         (c)   Windows as dominant elements; a higher percentage of wall than
window should exist on the facade. [Exception shall be made to retail
establishments in the C-1 and C-1P Districts which rely on pedestrian traffic];
         (d)   Floor to ceiling windows greater than one story;
         (e)   Large horizontal strips of windows (ratio greater than 2:1)
visible from the street;
         (f)   Glass block visible from street;
         (g)   Aluminum store front systems;
         (h)   Reflective glass;
         (i)   Plastic glazing materials; and
         (j)   Outside jalousies and jalousies windows visible from street.
   (F)   Color.
      (1)   General. Colors shall be natural and subdued (earth tones are
recommended) and shall blend in well with the natural surroundings. Natural
stains or paints that reflect the colors of natural materials should be
dominant on large areas such as building facades and elevations. Openings and
entryways should be clearly expressed with changes of texture or color. Trim
color shall refer to any or all building’s trim elements (such as eaves,
soffits, overhangs, fasciae, windows, sills, gutters). Principal building and
trim colors are subject to review, also for repainting an existing building. If
the color for repainting matches the existing, then no permit will be required.
      (2)   Prohibited.
         (a)   More than three colors of the town’s color chart and of like
materials (principal building and trim);
         (b)   High gloss finishes;
         (c)   Day-glow and fluorescent colors (except for as permitted above);
         (d)   Bright colors, including pastels that do not harmonize with
natural materials; and
         (e)   Earthtone stains.
   (G)   Additional height for certain M-U developments.
      (1)   For developments within the M-U Zoning District, the maximum height
of such buildings may be up to 70 feet in height instead of the maximum height
specified in division (A) above of this section, provided all of the following
criteria are met:
         (a)   The property is located on a state highway;
         (b)   The building containing the increased height is set back from
the highway at least 250 feet and at least 100 feet from all other property
lines; and
         (c)   The property is located on a valley floor such that the adjacent
ridgelines, at their average point, extend at least 70 feet above the top of
the building as measured from the vantage point located on the state highway at
the state highway's median elevation along the subject tract;
         (d)   For purposes of determining the elevations of the building, the
median elevation of the state highway along the subject tract, and the adjacent
ridgelines, the applicant must have such determinations certified by a North
Carolina licensed surveyor.
      (2) The formula to be used to calculate building height under this
division (G) shall be the same as set forth in division (A) above of this
section.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 6-11-2007; Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 12-12-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 502; Res.
passed - -2019)
§ 152.089 HERITAGE DISTRICT OVERLAY SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All development, whether new construction, additions or major
renovations within the HOD shall be conditional in nature and shall require
review by the Preserve America Commission (PAC) with a recommendation to the
Planning Board. Additional consideration of the Medical Education (M-E)
District may be required on a case-by-case basis.
   (B)   They shall also comply with all of the architectural standards in §
152.085 of this chapter, taking into consideration the elements of social,
economic, political and architectural history of the town and additionally
shall incorporate the following into their site design.
      (1)   All additions to existing structures must have prior approval of
the PAC and the Planning Board before a zoning permit can be issued.
      (2)   No demolition of any kind shall take place in the HOD without prior
review by the PAC and the Planning Board. If the Planning Board allows a
building to be demolished, then anything rebuilt in its place will not increase
the size of the previous footprint without approval.
      (3)   For new construction or rebuilding on any site within the HOD,
sidewalks shall be provided along the street side and sidewalk or alternate
pedestrian paths shall connect the building entrance to the sidewalk at street
side. Sidewalks shall be designed to match the town’s Pedestrian Plan. Should
it prove impossible to construct on the property in question, due to prevention
by some other portion of the ordinance, inadequate feasibility or a hardship
caused by land features, then an equitable fee in lieu shall be paid to the
town to be used as the Town Council sees fit in other areas of the town. The
fee shall be calculated by the linear footage of road frontage where the
sidewalk should have been placed and the current rate to construct that amount
of sidewalk.
      (4)   Buildings setbacks shall be reviewed on an individual basis
providing for the consideration of pedestrian amenities and landscaping.
Commercial sites should design for parking in back of the property with
storefront access available to sidewalk traffic.
      (5)   Pedestrian amenities such as bike racks, benches, and trash
receptacles shall be a component of the site plan and be provided at a distance
of one per 200 feet by the developer taking into consideration the proximity of
such amenities on adjacent properties. These amenities shall match the existing
items as per the town’s Pedestrian Plan. Based on surrounding properties,
pedestrian paths, vehicular traffic and residential property this requirement
and the location of the amenities may be varied or waived at the discretion of
the Planning Board with advice from the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Ornamental street lights, which match the existing town’s
streetscape lights, shall be incorporated into parking lot and street designs.
      (7)   Any residential trash receptacles should be taken up on the
property after they have been emptied and not left to linger at the edge of the
road for the day ; possibly causing a traffic hazard. If one cannot bring the
receptacles back up then the town has the authority to mandate door pick up
service at the expense of the property owner.
      (8)   The town, at its option, may provide mail receptacles and require
the use of such by the homeowner or tenant to which it is provided in the
Heritage District Overlay. Damage to the town provided receptacles outside of
normal wear and tear could be assessed to the resident up to the full
replacement cost. The town may require that all new construction provide
identical mail receptacles to those provided by the town.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1535.png]
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 503)
§ 152.090 VIEWSHED DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES.
   The intent of this subchapter is to preserve the scenic beauty and natural
environment of the town’s hillside areas vital to preservation of a high
quality of life, preservation of the natural heritage and continued development
that is critical to the economic future of the citizens of the town.
   (A)   All land development and construction clearly visible from section of
N.C. Highways 184 and or 194 within a viewshed area. This section shall apply
to all development within the viewshed area taking place after the adoption of
this amendment, including single-family residences.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall make an on-site
inspection to determine if the development, as proposed, can be seen during any
season of the year from major traffic corridors. The Zoning Administrator’s
determination may be appealed to the Board of Adjustments in accordance with §
152.270 of this chapter.
   (C)   Person developing property in the viewshed shall strive to preserve
foliage and trees on the property with a goal of minimizing the visual impact
of the development from the major corridors. Clearing cutting is prohibited;
however, considerations shall be given toward ensuring the safety of the
structure to be constructed.
   (D)   All development in the viewshed shall include a plan for landscape
buffering, in the line of sight of the major corridor, to reduce the extent,
reasonably possible, of the visual impact of the development from the major
corridors. Such plans, in the case of the construction of a single-family home,
need not be “formal” or prepared by a landscape profession, but must be in
writing sufficiently detailed to allow the Administrator to know what is
planned.
   (E)   All development along ridgelines must be designed in an effort to
reasonably minimizes the visual impact of such development as seen from the
major traffic corridors. To this end, the Zoning Administrator may suggest a
redesign of a site development plan or may require specific landscape
buffering, such as trees and other plant material, to be installed. In spirit
with this section, no structure shall make a silhouette or stand out against
the sky on the ridges, as visible from the major traffic corridors.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 504)
SIGNS
§ 152.105 SIGNS.
   (A)   The sign regulations of this subchapter are intended to fairly balance
public and private interests. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect
public safety, minimize the abundance and size of signs in order to reduce
visible clutter, motorist distraction and loss of sight distance. Furthermore,
to promote, direct, identify, advertise, advocate, endorse and otherwise
communicate information and support and complement the land use objectives as
set forth in the 2010-2030 Banner Elk Land Use Plan. Intentions are to prevent
obtrusive signage that would negatively impact the town’s streetscape, the
surrounding beauty of our area, and the efforts we make every day to protect
our environment. While these regulations allow for a variety of sign types and
sizes, they do not necessarily ensure every property owner or business owner’s
desired level of visibility. It is not the intent or purpose of this subchapter
to regulate the message displayed on any sign or the content.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   General. To ensure that signs are located, designed, constructed,
installed and maintained in a way that protects life, health, morals, property
and the public welfare;
      (2)   Public safety. To protect the public safety by prohibiting signs
that are structurally unsafe or poorly maintained; that cause unsafe traffic
conditions through distraction of motorists, confusion with the information on
a traffic sign, hindrance of vision and that impede safe movement of
pedestrians and/or safe ingress and egress from buildings and sites;
      (3)   Protect the aesthetic quality of neighborhoods. Prevent blight and
protect the aesthetic qualities of the town preventing visual clutter and
protecting views;
      (4)   Free speech. Ensure that the constitutionally guaranteed right of
free speech is protected and to allow signs as a means of communication;
      (5)   Reduce visual conflict. Reduce visual conflict between signs and
light and establish a clear distinction between public and private information
systems;
      (6)   Neighborhood character. Reinforce and support the desired character
of each neighborhood classification and zone district in a manner that takes
into consideration building scale and massing, lot size, building setbacks,
transparency, street dimensions, travel speed and pedestrian presence so that
signage contributes to the streetscape element and aids in creating a sense of
“place”; and
      (7)   Identification. Allow for adequate and effective signage for
disseminating public information, included, but not limited to, public safety
information and notification as required by law.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 600)
§ 152.106 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases not defined in this subchapter, but defined in §
152.010 of this chapter, shall be given the meanings set forth in §
152.010 of this chapter. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ANIMATION. The movement, or the optical illusion of movement of any part of
the sign structure, design or pictorial segment including the movement of any
illumination or the flashing, scintillating or varying of light intensity. The
automatic changing of all or any part of the facing of a sign shall be
considered to be ANIMATION. Also included in this definition are signs having
“chasing action” which is the action of a row of lights commonly used to create
the appearance of motion.
   ARTWORK. Integral decorative or architectural feature of a building,
attached to a building or works of art displayed in a prime setting or painted
on a surface.
   BALLOON. A non-porous bag of material filled with heated or non-heated air
or gas so as to rise or float in the atmosphere.
   BANNER. A fabric, plastic or other material made of non-rigid material
without enclosing structural framework.
   BILLBOARD. Any outdoor off-premise sign, display, light, device, figure,
painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard or any other thing which
is designed, intended or used to advertise or inform, any part of the
advertising or information contents of which is visible from any place on the
main-traveled way of the interstate or primary system, whether the same be
permanent or portable installation.
(G.S. § 136-128)
   BUILDING FRONT. The linear length of building facing a street right-of-way
or in the case of a planned unit development, facing a legal private access
road.
   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building, date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted to
a free-standing sign.
   CANOPY. A protective cover over a door, entrance, window or outdoor service
area, which is attached to or cantilevered from a building; also known as an
AWNING. Permanent marquees and porticoes that are designed as a continuous or
integral part of the structure shall not be considered CANOPIES.
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign that is suspended from, attached to, support from,
applied to or constructed as part of a canopy or awning. A marquee is not a
CANOPY.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign on which message copy is changed manually in
the field through attachment of letters, numbers, symbols and other similar
characters of changeable pictorial panels. In no case shall the changeable copy
portion exceed 50% of the total sign area.
   COMBINED DEVELOPMENT. A grouping of two or more establishments on one or
more parcels of property that may share parking and access and are linked
architecturally or otherwise present the appearance of a unified grouping of
activities.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGNS. A sign that directs motorists to a location or confirms a
correct route, such as enter, exit and parking signs.
   DRIVE-THROUGH WINDOW SIGN. An attached or free-standing sign listing choices
and processes. The sign allows communication between the consumer and business.
Limited to no more than two signs and should not be seen from a road, only
viewable to those waiting in line at a drive-through.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY. Any characteristic of a sign that appears to have movement
or that appears to change, caused by any method other than physically removing
and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or
change is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of
the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology or method
allowing the sign face to change the image without having to physically or
mechanically replace the sign face or its components. This also includes any
rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking or animated display and any
display that incorporates rotating panels, LCD or other monitors, LED lights,
manipulated through digital input, digital ink or any other method or
technology that allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
   FACADE. The entire building walls, including wall faces, parapets, fascia,
windows, doors, canopy and visible roof structures of one complete elevation.
   FEATHER SIGNS AND BANNERS. Promotional banners and advertising signs.
FEATHER SIGNS are anchored onto bent poles via a reinforced sleeve and are left
open at the bottom in order to flutter in the wind as a means for drawing
attention. FEATHER BANNERS are vertically-proportioned rectangular banners that
are anchored onto poles at the top and on one side via reinforced cloth sleeves
and stiffened at the bottom to minimize flapping.
   FENCE SIGN. A sign mounted on, attached to or constructed as part of a fence
or similar structure.
   FESTOON LIGHTING. A string of outdoor lights suspended between two or more
points.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns
or symbols, used as a symbol of government, political subdivision or other
entity. The height of any flagpole cannot exceed the 35-foot height
restriction. The 4 U.S.C. Ch. 1 describes the United States flag as a living
symbol and must be treated with such respect as well as state and local
government flags.
   FLAG, ORNAMENTAL. Any fabric containing distinctive colors or patterns that
is used as an ornamental decoration. Size is restricted to no greater than
three feet by five. The flag cannot protrude into the road or right-of-way.
Quantity limited to one per location.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign supported by a sign structure placed in the
ground that is wholly independent of any building, fence, vehicle or object
other than the sign structure for support.
   GASOLINE PUMP SIGN. Signs which are normally associated with the sale of
gasoline.
   GOVERNMENT ENTITY. The town and its departments, the county and its
departments, the state and its departments, and the United States of America
and its departments.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained by a
governmental entity.
   GRADE. The uppermost surface directly below the sign or immediately adjacent
to the support. Where the uppermost surface has been artificially raised for
landscaping or other purposes, GRADE shall be measured from the level of the
nearest town or state street curb.
   GROUND-MOUNTED SIGN. A free-standing sign with its base or its supports
mounted directly to the ground. For the purposes of this chapter, a ground sign
shall be defined as two sign faces that are located back-to-back on a single
structure. The maximum sign area as set forth in § 152.113 of this chapter.
   HALO LIT LETTERING. Lettering made with attachable lighting that diffuses
behind the outline of the lettering. Letters are to be made of metal or wood,
no opaque materials. Not to exceed 6,500 lumens each.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign whose copy is limited to the name and address of
a building being identified.
   ILLUMINATION, INDIRECT. Illumination that reflects light from an artificial
light source intentionally directed upon a surface. This shall also include
silhouettes of letters or symbols placed before a background of reflected
light.
   ILLUMINATION, INTERNAL. Illumination provided from a source located inside
or within the face of the sign.
   INFLATABLE SIGNS. A three-dimensional object, filled with air or gas, and
located in such a manner as to attract attention. Does not include balloons.
   INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign, emblem or decal informing the public of services
available on the premises that cannot be seen from the road (e.g., credit
cards, “ATM” or a sign indicating hours of operation).
   LETTERING. Letters that are mounted to the side of a building may be allowed
in order to identify the business at that location. LETTERING can be made of
high-density urethane or wood. Maximum allowable area for lettering is one
square foot per linear foot of building wall the lettering is attached to and
not to exceed 50 square feet for all zoning districts and 32 square feet for
all residential zoning districts.
   MAINTENANCE. The cleaning, painting, repair or replacement of defective
parts of a sign in a manner that does not alter the basic copy, design or
structure of the sign.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A ground sign that is mounted generally flush with the
surrounding grade. It may not be attached to a pole or pylon, nor raised by
mounting on a human-made berm, wall or similar structure. Supporting elements
may not exceed 24 inches in height and are included in the measurement of sign
height.
   NEON SIGNS. Luminous tube sign that contains neon or other gasses at a low
pressure.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. A sign that was legally erected, but that does not
comply with the subsequently enacted sign regulations and restrictions.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign identifying/advertising and/or directing the
public to an activity or event at a place other than the real property on which
said sign is located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign or display that identifies or communicates a
message related to the activity conducted, the service offered or anything sold
on the premises where the sign is located.
   PANEL. The primary surface of a sign that carries an identifying message.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind, to include feather signs and
banners.
   POLITICAL SIGN. Any sign that advocates for political action, a political
party or candidate for elected office. The term does not include a commercial
sign.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign designed or intended to be readily relocated whether
or not it is permanently attached to a building, structure, vehicles or on the
ground. PORTABLE SIGNS also include signs on wheels or on portable structures
such as trailers, motor vehicles and/or tent signs, A-frame or T-shaped signs,
attached to a person and/or normal advertising placed on motor vehicles which
are not used regularly and are placed in such a manner as to attract attention
if parked at a location other than at the location it is identified with.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which projects from a structure into a vehicular or
pedestrian access way, more than one foot from the surface on which it is
mounted, and is mounted usually, but not always, at right angles to the
building.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land or interest therein acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes by the town or the state’s Department of
Transportation.
   QR CODE. The use of QR Codes (Quick Response Codes) will be allowed on a
smooth flat surface, as an addition to an existing sign or as an attachment to
an existing sign, to be no greater than four inches by four inches.
   RIDER SIGN. A small sign attached to an existing signs used by a business to
display QR codes or text-to-text numbers only; enabling the business to provide
more information about their product to the public. Only one RIDER SIGN or info
tube allowed per real estate sign. The RIDER SIGN cannot exceed one square foot
and is not subject to the same material requirements as the remainder of the
sign.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
building, supported by the roof and extending vertically above the highest
portion of the roof.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign placed upon property that is available for rent or
purchase.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
building, supported by the roof and extending vertically above the highest
portion of the roof.
   SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. A sign made of wood or plastic in an A frame, with an
overall size no greater than two feet by three feet, having a full chalkboard
face. The sign is designed to be portable and is meant as an advertisement for
temporary event or a special at a location or business. Colors for the frame
shall be in keeping with natural earthtones. The chalk face shall be black or
white, with no neon colors allowed.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The triangular area formed by the intersecting street right-
of-way lines and a straight line connecting points on said street right-of-way.
The SIGHT TRIANGLE, as required by the state’s Department of Transportation, is
illustrated below; however, this sight triangle may be varied by the
Administrator of the town and private streets as deemed necessary. On a corner
lot in any zoning district, no planting, structures, sign, fence, wall or
obstruction to vision more than two and one-half feet or lower than five feet
in height measured from the centerline of the street shall be placed or
maintained within the triangular area formed by the intersecting street right-
of-way lines and a straight line connecting points on said street right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1537.png]
   SIGN. Any display of letters, words, numbers, symbols, emblems, objects,
pictures or any combination thereof made visible for the purpose of attracting
attention or of making something known, whether such display is made on,
attached to or constructed as part of a building, structure, vehicle or object.
   SNIPE SIGN. A temporary sign or poster affixed to a tree, public utility
pole, fence and the like.
   SPINNER. A wind activated, propeller-type device, which may or may not be
attached to advertising copy.
   STREAMER. A string or strip of miniature or full size pennants or flags that
may or may not be suspended between two points.
   T-SHAPED SIGN. A portable sign comprised of one or more panels or faces
joined at the bottom to a perpendicular base on which the sign stands.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign intended to be displayed for a short period of time.
TEMPORARY SIGNS are exempt from permit requirements and are allowed in the
town’s zoning jurisdictions; provided that, they are displayed for no more than
five days cumulative within a two-month period for the same sign. TEMPORARY
SIGNS are limited to three per parcel and must be placed at least five feet
from the edge of the road without blocking other signs. TEMPORARY SIGNS cannot
exceed three square feet by four feet or a height no more than two and one-half
feet or lower than five feet if inside the sight triangle and must be made of a
material that is suitable for the timeframe they are visible without
deterioration.
   VISION OBSTRUCTION. The placement of a sign that would limit a full view of
both pedestrian and vehicular traffic within the sight triangle. See §
152.072(I) of this chapter.
   WALL SIGN. A sign affixed on and parallel to the exterior wall of any
building and projecting not more than 12 inches from the wall. Signs mounted on
porticoes shall be considered as WALL SIGNS.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign that is applied to the building glass area.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 8-8-2011; Ord.
passed 10-10-2011; Ord. passed 10-8-2012; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed
7-10-2017; Ord. passed 9-11-2017; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 601)
§ 152.107 APPLICABILITY AND REGULATORY PURPOSES.
   (A)   To promote the creation of an attractive visual environment that
promotes a healthy economy by:
      (1)   Enhancing the town’s ability to attract sources of economic
development and growth, while protecting the beauty and unique character of the
town and enhancing the aesthetic environment of the town by eliminating visual
blight; and
      (2)   Permitting anyone to inform, identify and communicate effectively.
   (B)   Protecting and enhancing the physical appearance of the town in a
lawful manner that recognizes the rights of every property owner by:
      (1)   Encouraging the appropriate design, scale and placement of signs;
      (2)   Encouraging the orderly placement of signs for the safety and best
use for all affected; and
      (3)   Assuring that the information displayed on a sign is clearly
visible, conspicuous, legible and readable so that the sign achieves the intent
it is purposed to do.
   (C)   Fostering public safety along public and private streets within the
town’s zoning jurisdiction by assuring that all signs are in a safe and
appropriate place: promoting public safety, welfare, convenience and enjoyment
of travel and the free flow of traffic within the town.
   (D)   Allowing for administrative review procedures that are the minimum
necessary to:
      (1)   Allow for consistent enforcement of this subchapter;
      (2)   Establishing a permit system for an allowable variety of signs in
commercial districts, and a limited variety of signs in other districts,
subject to the standards and permit procedures of this chapter;
      (3)   Allowing certain signs that are small and unobtrusive, and
incidental to the principal use of the respective lots on which they are
located, subject to the substantive requirements of this subchapter, but
without the a requirement for permits;
      (4)   Providing for temporary signs for a limited timeframe and under
limited circumstances;
      (5)   Minimizing the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public
and private property; and
      (6)   Prohibiting all signs not expressly permitted by this subchapter.
   (E)   Repainting of a sign face for maintenance purposes, and not including
changes to color or message shall be considered maintenance or repair and a
sign permit is not required. However, any physical alteration of the sign frame
or supporting structure shall be considered the same as construction of a new
sign and shall require a sign permit and conformance with the standards
established in this section.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 8-8-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-
14-2019, § 602)
§ 152.108 MEASUREMENT OF SIGN AREA AND HEIGHT.
   The following guidelines shall control the computation of the sign area and
height.
   (A)   Computation of area of single-faced signs. The area of a sign face
shall be considered to be that of the smallest two-dimensional panels which
encompasses all lettering, wording, design or symbols together with any
background difference in the balance of the wall on which it is located, if
such background is designed as an integral part of and obviously related to the
sign.
   (B)   Computation of the area of a double-sided sign. The area of each panel
of a sign that is designed to be seen from both sides shall be calculated
independently.
   (C)   Supports. The supports, which affix a sign to the ground or to a
building, shall not be considered in the area of the sign unless supports are
obviously designed to be an integral part of the sign, as defined by these
regulations. Wooden ground supports shall be a minimum of four inches by four
inches. Temporary signs may use one two inches by two inches channel iron
support.
   (D)   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be measured from the
highest point of a sign or its support; whichever is greater, to the base of
the sign at the highest adjacent grade.
   (E)   Copy area. The area of the sign face that is covered by text or
symbols. No more than 50% of the sign area shall be covered with text or
symbols.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 8-8-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2011; Ord. passed 10-
10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 603)
§ 152.109 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as set forth in §
152.112 of this chapter, a permit shall be required prior to the erection of
any sign regulated under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 604)
§ 152.110 DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be designed, constructed and maintained in good structural
condition according to applicable provisions of the state’s Building Code, all
applicable electrical codes and this chapter.
   (A)   Technique. All signs shall be sandblasted, hand carved or routed.
   (B)   Materials. A minimum of one-fourth inch depth; made of wood or like
material manufactured to replicate wood, with craftsmanship to be in harmony
with the natural and mountain character of the surroundings. The approved Town
Color Chart shall serve as a guideline for the acceptable colors. Any color
outside this color chart will need to be approved by the Planning Board.
Temporary materials may be allowed for temporary signs with prior approval from
the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Colors. Colors shall blend in well with the natural surroundings. The
town’s Color Chart shall serve as a guideline. The color chart can be found at
www.oldecenturycolors.com. Should the color for repainting match the existing,
then no permit will be required, unless the colors are out of compliance.
Accent color(s) may be allowed with no greater than 2% of the overall sign
calculated for the accent color(s) and with prior approval from the Zoning
Administrator. Gold leaf lettering is allowed.
   (D)   Landscaping. All ground-mounted signs shall have incorporated
landscaping which is consistent with the town’s streetscape format with support
being constructed from rock, wood posts or other natural materials being
located outside of road rights-of-way.
   (E)   Placement. Except for banners, flags, temporary signs and window signs
conforming in all respects with the requirements of this chapters, all signs
shall be constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached
to the ground, a building or another structure by direct attachment. Signs
shall not be placed in the road right-of-way and shall be kept out of the sight
triangle. (See §
152.072 of this chapter.)
   (F)   Design area. All signs, unless otherwise stated or implied, shall have
no more than two faces, displayed on opposite sides and without a space or
angled projection to one another. Said signs shall have the same message and
general design on both faces.
   (G)   Maintenance. The trimming, removal or addition of trees, shrubs or
other vegetation located within the public right-of-way or within designated
streetscape or greenway areas shall be coordinated efforts between the town and
the adjoining property owner. The final approval shall be the domain of the
town.
   (H)   Lighting. Illuminated signs shall be by a shielded indirect white or
amber light of reasonable intensity and directed solely at the sign face.
Internally lit signs are not allowed.
   (I)   Vision obstruction. No sign shall create a vision obstruction onto a
public right-of-way, including alleys and sidewalks, except for government
signs. All signs shall be set back out of the right-of-way and the sight
triangle as addressed in §
152.072 of this chapter.
   (J)   Changeable copy. In no case shall the changeable copy area of a sign
or marquee exceed 50% of the total sign area.
   (K)   Projecting, suspending and/or canopy signs. Projecting, suspending
and/or canopy signs may be no less than eight feet at their lowest point above
any sidewalk or walkway.
   (L)   Private property. All signs and sign structures shall be located on
private property, except when expressly allowed to encroach into a public
right-of-way.
   (M)   Setbacks. Sign setbacks shall be measured from the lot lines. All
signs, unless otherwise provided for, shall be setback a minimum of 15 feet
from the front, side or rear of a property line.
   (N)   Natural features. Construction, erection, installation or modification
of a permitted sign shall not cause the removal of trees, alteration of the
natural topography or obstruction of a natural drainage course.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 8-8-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2011; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 605)
§ 152.111 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited within the town and its ETJ:
   (A)   Signs that are similar, or mimic, official highway signs, warning
signs or regulatory devices;
   (B)   Signs displaying blinking, flashing or intermittent lights, animation
and moving parts or electronically displayed messages-signs which display the
time and temperature;
   (C)   Portable signs or any fashion of moveable sign, to exclude sandwich
board signs;
   (D)   Off-premise signs except those expressly permitted herein;
   (E)   Off-premises outdoor advertising signs;
   (F)   Facsimile signs;
   (G)   Signs attached to or painted on utility poles, telephone poles, trees,
parking meters, bridges and overpasses, rocks, other signs, benches and refuse
containers or any other inanimate object;
   (H)   Roof signs;
   (I)   Pavement markings for purposes other than traffic control;
   (J)   Signs placed within or extending into the right-of-way of town and
state maintained streets and roads, except those erected by a duly constituted
government body;
   (K)   Signs that contain language and/or pictures obscene to the general
public in accordance with G.S. § 14-190.1;
   (L)   Indirect illumination, such as floodlights, erected in such a manner
as to cause glare that impairs driver vision on streets or roadways or that
causes a nuisance to the occupants of adjoining property;
   (M)   Signs that obstruct fire escapes, windows, doors or other openings
used as a means of egress or as required legal ventilation;
   (N)   Signs containing or consisting of pennants, ribbons, streamers,
festoon lighting, balloons (or inflatable signs), spinners, feather signs or
banners;
   (O)   Signs whose face is composed of vinyl, aluminum or similar materials;
   (P)   Signs that do not conform to the provisions of these regulations;
   (Q)   Snipe signs;
   (R)   Billboards; and
   (S)   Any sign not otherwise permitted or exempted, or which does not
otherwise conform to the regulations contained in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 606)
§ 152.112 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   (A)   Exempt signs. The following signs do not require a permit:
   (A)   Building marker signs. A sign etched into masonry, bronze or similar
material on a building;
   (B)   Identification sign. A pedestrian oriented sign attached to a building
to identify the tenant within. Such sign shall contain no advertising other
than trade name and/or logotype. One sign is permitted per entrance. Maximum
size: six square fee;
   (C)   Directional signs. Signs that are located on the premise/property to
provide directions. Such signs contain no copy other than directional
information such as “exit”, “entrance”, “parking”. No more than two signs per
entrance or exit shall be permitted. Maximum size: four square feet; maximum
height: four feet;
   (D)   Drive-through signs. Signs that are permitted as either a free-
standing or attached wall sign. Such signs may not exceed 28 square feet and
should not be visible from the front of the building. No more than two drive-
through signs are allowed per location;
   (E)   Official flags. Per 4 U.S.C. Ch. 1, authorization is granted to fly
the United States flag as prescribed in that code and is considered a living
symbol. Per G.S. §§144.3 and 144.7, the North Carolina State Flag is authorized
to fly at public institutions. Flags or insignia of any nation (United States),
organization of nations (United Nations), state (North Carolina), county or
municipality (Avery County or Banner Elk.) Flagpoles cannot exceed the 35-foot
height restriction;
   (F)   Government signs. Signs posted or authorized by various local, state,
and federal agencies in the performance of their duties such as regulatory
signs, welcome signs and traffic signs. Also, Bulletin Boards erected and
maintained by the town;
   (G)   Historical marker. An historic marker may be placed on the premise or
property for the expressed purpose of signifying the site or an event that
occurred on the site as having historical value. The request should be
accompanied with a notation of the historical value of the site or the event or
person(s) it is representing. Maximum size: 16 square feet;
   (H)   Informational signs. Signs displayed for the direction and convenience
of the public. Such signs shall not exceed two square feet in area and are to
be used to inform the public about a service or function not immediately in
view of the public (i.e., “ATM”);
   (I)   Legal and warning signs. Signs erected to warn of danger or hazardous
conditions such as signs erected by public utility companies or construction
companies; signs required for or specifically authorized for a public purpose
by any law, statute or ordinance;
   (J)   Occupant/street number signs. Signs affixed to structures, mailboxes,
decorative light posts, driveway entrances and the like, which serve to
identify the address of the structure or occupant. All such signs shall be
placed in such a manner as to be visible from the street. Maximum size: two
square feet;
   (K)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs are exempt from permit requirements
and are allowed in the town’s zoning jurisdiction; provided that, they are
displayed for no more than five days cumulative within a two-month period for
the same sign. Temporary signs are limited to three per parcel and must be
placed at least five feet from the edge of the road without blocking other
signs. Temporary signs cannot exceed three square feet or a height of four
feet, two and one-half feet in the sight triangle, and must be made of a
material that is suitable for the timeframe they are visible without
deterioration. A sign that has deteriorated to where it is no longer functional
as a sign is prohibited;
   (L)   Window displays. Merchandise, pictures or models that are incorporated
as an integral part of a window display; and
   (M)   Window signs. Signs temporarily attached or temporarily painted to a
window or door, announcing sale or special features; provided, they do not
exceed 50% of the area of said window or door. Signs that exceed 50% of the
area of said window shall be treated as wall signs. Temporary signs shall be
removed within two days after the termination of such sale or special event.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, §607)
§ 152.113 STANDARDS FOR PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   (A)   Standards for permanent signs in R-1, R-1-U and R-2.
Type of Sign Maximum Size of Maximum No. of Maximum Height Location of Signs
             Sign            Signs
                                    Maximum     Maximum No.   Maximum  Location
Type of Sign                        Size of     of Signs      Height   of Signs
                                    Sign
Free-standing
   Outside the Heritage District 48 sq. ft.  1 per
Overlay                                         frontage               Outside of
                                                                       street
                                                              14 ft.   right-of-
   Inside the Heritage District  32 sq. ft.  1 per                  way and
Overlay                                         frontage               sight
                                                                       triangle**

                                    24 sq. ft.  1 per PRD
                                    for tracts  allowed for            Outside of
                                    exceeding 3 up to 1 year           street
Planned residential development     acres or    from final             right-of-
                                   advertising plat approval 4 ft.    way and
                                   lots for    with renewal           sight
                                    sale in     option by              triangle
                                    approved    Architectural          **
                                    subdivision Review
                                                Committee
Real estate
                                                                       Outside of
                                                                       street
   Residential areas             2 sq. ft.   1 per street  3 ft.    right-of-
                                                frontage               way and
                                                                       sight
                                                                       triangle**
                                    1 sq. ft.
                                    per linear
                                    foot of
                                    building    1 per
                                    wall the    building wall Not to   -
                                    sign is     with frontage extend
Wall mounted signs                  attached to               above
                                    and not to                vertical
                                    exceed 32                 wall
                                    square feet

                                    4 sq. ft.   1                      -


NOTES TO TABLE:
** For illustration, see §
152.072(I) of this chapter
 
   (B)   Standards for permanent signs in C-2, M-E* and M-1 (to include all
signs also permitted in division (A) above).
Type of Sign Maximum Size of Maximum No. of Maximum Height Location of Signs
             Sign            Signs
Type of Sign    Maximum Size of Maximum No. of  Maximum Height Location of
                Sign            Signs                          Signs
                Not to exceed
Combined        an additional
development     50% of the area                                Outside of
(multiple units allowed for a                                  street right-of-
in one or a     free-standing   1               14 ft.         way and sight
group of        sign or a total                                triangle**
buildings)      of 72 sq. ft.,
                whichever is
                greater
                                                               Outside of
Free-standing/  48 sq. ft.      1 per street    14 ft.         street right-of-
ground signs                    frontage                       way and sight
                                                               triangle**
                1 sq. ft. per
                linear foot of
Halo lit        building the    1 per                          Wall-mounted
lettering       sign is         establishment   36 in.         only
                attached to, up
                to a maximum of
                50 sq. ft.
                                                               Vertical
Projecting/                                                    clearance from
suspending/     8 sq. ft.       1               -              sidewalk and/or
canopy signs                                                   public street is
                                                               a minimum of 8
                                                               ft.
                                1 per street                   Outside of
Real estate     3 sq. ft.       frontage and no 4 ft.          street right-of-
                                illumination                   way and sight
                                will be allowed                triangle**
                1 sq. ft. per
                linear foot of  1 per building  Not to extend
Wall-mounted    building the    wall that has   above the
signs           sign is         frontage on a   vertical wall  -
                attached to, up public street   or roof line
                to a maximum of or parking lot.
                50 sq. ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Signage in addition to that listed above is permitted in M-E District as a
conditional use, when signs are needed to identify the name of more than one
structure or use, or specific signs are needed for public health and safety.
HOD areas require special permitting.
**For illustration, see §
152.072(I) of this chapter.
 
   (C)   Standards for permanent signs in C-1, C-1P, M-E* and HOD (to include
all signs also permitted in division (A) above).
 
Type of Sign    Maximum Size of Maximum No. of Maximum Height Location of
                Sign            Signs                         Signs
Combined
development     Not to exceed
(multiple units an additional
in one or a     50% of the area                               Outside of
group of        allowed for a   1              14 ft.         street right-of-
buildings with  free-standing                                 way and sight
multiple        sign or 48 sq.                                triangle**
entrances       ft. total
designed for
this purpose)
Free-standing/
ground signs                                                  Outside of
individual                      1 per street                  street right-of-
businesses may  32 sq. ft.      frontage       14 ft.         way and sight
not exceed a                                                  triangle**
combined total
of 32 sq. ft.
                1 sq. ft. per
                linear foot of
Halo lit        building the    1 per                         Wall-mounted
lettering       sign is         establishment  24 in.         only
                attached to, up
                to a maximum of
                50 sq. ft.
                                                              Vertical
Projecting/                                                   clearance from
suspending/     8 sq. ft.       1              -              sidewalk and/or
canopy signs                                                  public street is
                                                              a minimum of 8
                                                              ft.
                1 sq. ft. per
                linear foot of  1 per building Not to extend
Wall-mounted    building the    wall that has  above the
signs           sign is         frontage on a  vertical wall  -
                attached to, up public street  or roof line
                to a maximum of or parking lot
                35 sq. ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Signage in addition to that listed above is permitted in M-E District as a
conditional use, when signs are needed to identify the name of more than one
structure or use, or specific signs are needed for public health and safety.
HOD areas require special permitting.
**For illustration, see §
152.072(I) of this chapter.
 
   (D)   Standards for temporary or incidental signs requiring a permit.
Zoning District Maximum Size of Maximum No. of Maximum Height Location of Signs
                Sign            Signs
                           Maximum     Maximum No.  Maximum      Location of
Zoning District            Size of     of Signs     Height       Signs
                           Sign
C-1, C-1P, C-2, CZD and M-E
                                                                 Within 10 feet
                           2 ft. x 3   1 per street              of main
   Sandwich board sign  ft.         frontage     3 ft.        entrance of
                                                                 principal
                                                                 building
C-1, C-1P, C-2, M-E and M-1
   Temporary banners2   24 sq. ft.  1            4 ft.
                           24 sq. ft.,
                           but not to                            Outside of
                           exceed the                            street right-
                           size of the                           of-way and
   Directory signs      free-       1            (note 4)     sight
                           standing                              triangle**
                           sign to
                           which it is
                           attached
                                                    Not to       Within ten
                                                    extend above feet of main
   Wall signs           6 sq. ft.   1            the vertical entrance of
                                                    wall or roof principal
                                                    line         building
R-1, R-1-U
   Directional signs    4 sq. ft.   2 per        4 ft.
                                       property                  Outside of
                                                                 street right-
   Security and warning             3 per                     of-way and
signs1                     2 sq. ft.   business/    4 ft.        sight
                                       activity                  triangle**

                                                                 Must be kept 4
                           4 sq. ft.   2            4 ft.        ft. off the
                                                                 edge of the
                                                                 pavement
Temporary signs4                       1 on a major              Outside of
                                       thoroughfare              street right-
                           2 sq. ft.   and one on   4 ft.        of-way and
                                       the actual                sight
                                       property                  triangle**
                                       being shown
All zones
                           No greater               No more than
   Political signs      than 3 sq.               42" above    3' from edge
                           ft.                      the edge of  of road
                                                    road
 NOTES TO TABLE:
1 On-premises signs which designate health or safety warnings as required
bylaw, and security signs which regulate the use of property (i.e., “no
trespassing”, “no hunting”, “no soliciting”) or provide other warnings of
danger on the premises. Larger signs are permitted where required by law or
statute; provided, the signs shall not exceed the maximum number or size
required by said law or statute.
2 Permitted for opening and other special events for a maximum of 30 days
during a 6-month period.
3 Sign shall be attached to or suspended from an existing conforming free-
standing sign; the sign shall not extend above the permitted height of the
existing sign, nor placed on top of the existing sign. Additions shall not
extend below the permitted 8-foot vertical clearance over streets or sidewalks.
Permit shall be valid for a period of 120 days. Only 1 sign shall be permitted
at any one time.
4 Off-premises directional signs shall only be used by places which are located
in the town’s zoning jurisdiction and said locations do not have direct
frontage from N.C. 184 and N.C. 194. Directional signs are limited to 1 per
entity/activity, indirect illumination and written permission of the property
owner on which the sign is placed. Temporary signs are allowed for a special
event to direct the public and cannot exceed 5 days in a 2-month period.
 
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Ord. passed 7-14-2008; Ord.
passed 8-8-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-
14-2019, § 608)
§ 152.114 COMMUNITY EVENTS ADVERTISEMENTS.
   Advertisements for community events may be placed upon public property
designated by the Town. These advertisements shall be in the form of a banner;
a maximum of 24 square feet. The facility shall provide room for only one
advertisement at any time per set of posts. An advertisement shall be displayed
for no longer than seven consecutive days, unless prior approval has been
granted for a town-sponsored event. If an event is ongoing through several
months, the town can decide how long the banner can remain as long as other
events can have access as needed. Any person or group using this facility shall
have the burden of removing the banner on the business day directly following
the event. Unclaimed banners shall become the property of the town. Placement
of banners upon the community facility shall be at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator. Permit is required. Reword under a temporary signage as a
community bulletin board. Time place and manner with a permit.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 609)
§ 152.115 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Limitations to continued use of non-conforming signs. Subject to the
following schedule, a non-conforming sign may be continued and shall be
maintained in good condition, but it shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another non-conforming sign;
      (2)   Structurally altered as to prolong the life of the sign;
      (3)   Expanded;
      (4)   Reestablished after discontinuance for 90 days; or
      (5)   Reestablished after damage, destruction or deterioration if
estimated expense of reconstruction exceeds 50% of the appraised replacement
cost.
   (B)   Removal of all non-conforming signs. All signs already in place as of
10-16-2007 that do not conform with the regulations of this chapter shall be
brought into conformance with this chapter or shall be removed within seven
years of 10-16-2007. Any sign placed after 10-16-2007 that becomes non-
conforming as a result of any future amendment or rezoning shall have seven
years from the effective date of said amendment or rezoning to bring the sign
into conformance with the ordinance or be removed.
   (C)   Publicly-owned signs. All publicly-owned signs that are erected upon
any public street, public right-of-way or public property shall be approved by
Town Council and they shall not come under the context of this chapter.
   (D)   Impoundment of signs. The town shall have the authority to remove and
impound any sign, without further notice, where such signs are not in
compliance with this chapter as per §
152.111 of this chapter and the sign is placed in any street, state road or
highway right-of-way or other right-of-way, attached to trees, fence posts,
telephone and/or utility poles and/or any other than natural features.
      (1)   The town shall impound such signs for a period of ten days. The
owner of a sign impounded may recover it prior to the expiration of the ten-day
impoundment period. In the event a sign is not claimed within the ten days of
its impoundment, the town shall have the authority to dispose of such sign.
      (2)   In the event a violating sign requires special resources for its
removal and impoundment, the town, or independent contractor secured by the
town, shall remove the sign and the resulting charges shall be assessed and the
resulting charges shall be assessed to the owner and/or lessee.
   (E)   Unreadable signs. A deteriorated sign may be removed by the town at
the owner’s expense if it is unreadable.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-13-2009; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 610)
§ 152.116 SANDWICH BOARD SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs fitting the description of a sandwich board sign shall not
be placed outside prior to the opening of the business. Sandwich board signs
shall be kept on private property and shall not be placed in the right-of-way,
easement, sidewalk, sight triangle or in the roadway, but must be located
within ten feet of the main entrance of the business.
   (B)   The sign shall be anchored so as not to blow away with the wind into
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or be knocked over by other actions. A permit
is required per entity erecting such a sign.
   (C)   Sandwich board signs shall only be permitted in the C-1, C-2, C-1P,
CZD and M-E Zoning Districts. The cost of the permit shall be set by the Town
Council as part of the schedule of fees as adopted by the town. First violation
of the terms of this section will result in a suspension of permission to
display a sandwich board sign for 30 days and a civil penalty of $25. Upon
completion of the 30 days, a new application and fee can be submitted for
reissue. Any violation of the terms of this section beyond the first offense
shall result in the revocation of the business’s permit for this sign and a
penalty as outlined in §
152.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 7-10-2017; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 611)
§ 152.117 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Compliant political signs permitted. During the period on the
thirtieth day before the beginning date of “one stop” early voting under G.S. §
163-227.2 and ending on the tenth day after the primary or election day,
persons may place political signs, so long as they meet the requirements of
this section and are otherwise permitted by law. Signs must be placed in
compliance with division (B) below and must be removed by the end of the period
prescribed in this division (A). POLITICAL SIGNS means any sign that advocates
for political action, a political party, or candidate for elected office. The
term does not include a commercial sign.
   (B)   Sign placement. Signs may only be placed upon private property or
within areas of the state right-of-way where the state has authorized the
placement of such signs. The ordinance does not authorize the placement of on
private property unless the property owner has given their permission for
placement of the sign. Signs must be placed in accordance with the following.
      (1)   No sign shall be permitted in the right-of-way of a fully-
controlled access highway.
      (2)   No sign shall be closer than three feet from the edge of the
pavement of the road, nor shall a sign be placed in such a manner that it
obstructs or interferes with pedestrian traffic on a sidewalk.
      (3)   No sign shall obscure motorist visibility at an intersection.
      (4)   No sign shall be higher than 42 inches above the edge of the
pavement of the road.
      (5)   No sign shall be larger than three square feet in area.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 612)
Penalty, see §
152.999
 
§ 152.118 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of this subchapter shall not be deemed a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 8-8-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 613)
LANDSCAPING AND SIDEWALKS
§ 152.130 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish landscaping regulations
for future multifamily, commercial, planned residential development and
industrial development in the town. There are great benefits to preserving our
existing trees and replacing diseased ones.
   (B)   It is the intent of this section:
      (1)   To enhance the natural beauty and environment and quality of life
for the citizens of the town and also protect the public health, safety and
general welfare;
      (2)   To prevent and reduce soil erosion and sedimentation;
      (3)   To reduce the hazards of flooding and storm water runoff;
      (4)   To lessen air pollution and increase dust filtration;
      (5)   To provide shade and thereby reduce heat levels associated with
pavement;
      (6)   To increase natural buffers and thereby reduce the effects of wind
and noise;
      (7)   To strengthen and protect property values; and
      (8)   To improve community appearance.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 12-8-2008; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 700)
§ 152.131 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A landscaping plan, prepared by a registered architect, landscape
architect or professional landscaper, incorporating the requirements of this
subchapter shall be submitted with an application for a certificate of
compliance (zoning permit) for any permitted or conditional use. The landscape
plan shall be reviewed and approved by the town’s Architectural Review
Committee.
   (B)   The landscaping plan shall include the following, existing and
proposed landscaping, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The location, species and height of new trees and shrubbery. (Shade
trees shall be a minimum of two to two and one-half-inch caliper and eight to
ten feet in height at the time of planting; ornamental trees shall be a minimum
of one and one-half-inch caliper at the time of planting. Shrubs shall be a
minimum of 18 inches in height at the time of planting.):
         (a)   The location and dimensions of planting areas;
         (b)   The dimensions of the entire parking or paved area; and
         (c)   The location and height of fences or walls.
      (2)   The number, location, species and size of existing trees between
the principal building and the public street right-of-way which are to be
maintained and preserved for credit; the size is to be measured by taking the
circumference of the tree at approximately four and one-half feet above the
grade (dbh):
         (a)   The location and description of any barriers to be erected to
protect any vegetation from damage both during and after construction; and
         (b)   Clear edging shall be provided between landscaped areas and
pedestrian/vehicle areas.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 701)
§ 152.132 STREET YARD.
   (A)   A planting yard comprised of a strip of land containing landscaping
materials located along and parallel to a public street, or streets. A STREET
YARD is defined as a planting yard comprised of a strip of land containing
landscaping materials located along and parallel to a public street, or
streets. The street yard is located on private property and not within the
street right-of-way. Street yards may have a varying minimum width as specified
in this section; however, no street tree can be planted more than 35 feet from
the edge of the right-of-way to count as a street tree. The minimum depth of
the street yard from the edge of the street right-of-way cannot be less than
seven feet; or not less than five from the edge of the sidewalk. The average
length of the street yard, running parallel to the right-of-way, shall be at
least ten feet.
   (B)   For street yards, one large shade tree (expected height of 35 feet at
maturity) is required for every 50 feet of linear street frontage of the lot
minus the width of driveways and access points. Trees do not need to be spaced
evenly. They may be clustered with a minimum spacing of 15 feet and a maximum
spacing of 75 feet. Ornamental trees (expected height of 25 feet upon maturity)
may be used in place of shade trees at the rate of one for every 30 feet. Due
to above ground utilities; the town may require the use of ornamental trees in
place of large shade trees.
   (C)   Inclusion of existing trees in the landscape design is encouraged.
Shrubbery, ground cover and other planting materials shall be used to
compliment the tree planting. No area of the street yard may be exposed soil,
but instead shall be covered with vegetation, whether grass or shrubbery. The
only area that shall remain uncovered is the six-foot radius surrounding the
trunk of any tree; however, this area shall be mulched.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 702)
§ 152.133 PARKING LOT YARD.
   (A)   The purpose of parking lot yards is to provide attractive views from
roads and adjacent properties; provide shade to reduce the heat generated by
impervious surfaces, reduce glare from parking lots and to help filter exhaust
from vehicles. A PARKING LOT YARD is defined as a planting yard comprised of a
landscaped planting area to be located within or adjacent to the parking area
such as landscaped islands, inside medians, between ten parking spaces, and at
the end of a parking bay. Parking areas shall be broken up with landscaping and
should be screened by hedges, trees, planted berms, shrubs or walls. This
section applies to parking lots with ten or more parking spaces.
   (B)   Parking lots shall provide a minimum 10% net area of landscaping on
the interior or exterior of parking lots. All parking areas (not including
parking decks) shall provide and maintain landscaped planting areas within the
interior of or adjacent to the parking area or both.
      (1)   Landscaped planting areas are to be located within or adjacent to
the parking area as landscaped islands, at the end of parking bays, inside
medians or between rows of cars.
      (2)   There shall be one large shade tree within 60 feet of every parking
space.
      (3)   There shall be one shrub for every 300 square feet of total parking
area. Shrubs shall be 18 inches tall at planting and reach a minimum height of
30 inches in three years. No more than 40% may be deciduous.
      (4)   All trees and shrubs are to be planted within a landscaped planting
area not less than 200 square feet in area.
      (5)   Parking bays shall be broken up with landscaped islands or medians
to avoid long monotonous rows of parking; no more than ten spaces shall be
located in one continuous row.
      (6)   Trees and shrubs shall be planted within 20 feet of the parking lot
area to count as parking lot landscaping; provided, however, all street trees
required pursuant to §
152.132 of this chapter, may not count as parking lot landscaping.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 703)
§ 152.134 BUFFER YARDS.
   (A)   General. The purpose of the buffer yard is to provide a transitional
area between uses that may differ in development intensity and density. A
BUFFER YARD is defined as a planting yard that serves as a visual separation
between uses and should be densely planted. No buildings or parking areas may
encroach within the buffer yard.
      (1)   (a)   Where a commercial, office, multi-family, institutional or
industrial (non-residential) proposed use abuts an existing residential use or
residential zoning district, the developer is required to provide a vegetative
buffer yard between the residential and proposed uses. This shall be
accomplished through the use of densely planted landscaping that would provide
complete visual separation within three years of planting, or a combination of
shrubs and a six foot fence constructed of masonry or pressure-treated lumber.
The buffer yard between non-residential and residential uses shall be eight
feet in width. Buffer yards are required to use a mix of evergreen and
deciduous trees as well as shrubs. This allows for a more natural setting and
doesn’t limit the design to one type of plant that could become diseased and
perish, leaving open gaps. All buffer yards are to be maintained and any dead
plants shall be removed immediately and are to be replaced as soon as weather
permits.
         (b)   No such buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a street right-
of-way line than the established building line of the adjoining residential
lot.
      (2)   When any parking area is located within 100 feet of an abutting
property and no buffer yard is required by division (A)(1) above, a planting
yard which is a minimum of five feet wide shall be planted between the parking
area and the abutting property line, except along approved driveway openings
which run perpendicular to the planting strip. One large evergreen or deciduous
tree and five evergreen or deciduous shrubs shall be planted for every 40
linear feet of property line that parallels the parking lot area. Fifty percent
of these trees and shrubs may be counted toward the parking lot trees and
shrubs required in §
152.133 of this chapter, if the planting yard is located within 20 feet of the
parking lot area.
   (B)   Exception: adjacent businesses on separate lots which share parking or
driveways shall be exempt from this requirement provided that the required
planting yard would interfere with the reasonable use of the shared parking or
driveway. Parking areas located behind buildings and screened from view from a
public street shall be exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-13-2015; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 704)
§ 152.135 NON-CONFORMING PARKING LOTS.
   Non-conforming parking lots, which are not used as storage but instead have
parking as the principal use of the lot, existing at the time of the adoption
of this amendment, shall be required to comply with this subchapter and §§
152.150 through
152.170 of this chapter at such time they increase their parking area or add
parking spaces.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 707)
§ 152.136 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF DUMPSTERS AND OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   (A)   General. Property owners shall be responsible for providing adequate
solid waste receptacles, in accordance with this section, to store solid wastes
generated by said properties between scheduled pickups.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this section and after consultation
with the owner of the premises concerned, the Zoning Officer shall determine
the size, number and type of solid waste receptacles that must be provided for
all premises. In making this determination, the Zoning Officer shall consider
the type of activities on each premises and the amount of solid waste likely to
be generated by those activities, as well as the welfare of the occupants and
neighbors of those premises and the town’s need to facilitate collection and
minimize the costs of this service.
      (2)   Unless otherwise determined by the Zoning Officer for good cause
shown, when five or more dwelling units are located on a single lot, the owner
of the premises shall provide one or more dumpsters so that the following
criteria, relating to capacity are satisfied:
         (a)   Two cubic yards of storage capacity are provided for every eight
dwelling units or fraction thereof; provided that, the minimum size dumpster
shall be cubic yards.
         (b)   If more than one dumpster is required, the owner shall provide
the smallest number of dumpsters capable of satisfying the requirements stated
in division (A)(2)(a) above.
         (c)   Only dumpsters compatible with town collection equipment will be
approved.
         (d)   Unless otherwise determined by the Zoning Officer for good cause
shown, the owners of all premises not required to be served by dumpsters shall
provide at least one 30-32 gallon container made of galvanized metal, plastic,
rubber or other material resistant to rust, corrosion or rapid deterioration.
Each required container shall be water-tight and provided with handles and a
tight-fitting cover.
         (e)   Within commercial districts, where the zoning office determines
that a dumpster is not feasible, GDS approved, 96-gallon receptacles will be
used.
      (3)   All solid wastes shall be stored in approved solid waste
receptacles pending collection. Solid waste outside receptacles will not be
collected. The owner or tenant of a property is responsible for seeing that
solid wastes that are too bulky or too cumbersome to be collected by the town
as part of its regular collection service, are taken to an approved waste
management site for disposal.
      (4)   All solid waste receptacles shall be cleaned periodically to
minimize offensive odors.
      (5)   The tops, openings and gates to dumpsters shall be kept securely
fastened at all times, pending collection.
   (B)   Location. The location of solid waste receptacles located within the
jurisdiction of this chapter shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Solid waste receptacles shall be located in the rear yard; provided
that, when the receptacle cannot be serviced in said location, it may be
located in the side yard.
      (2)   Only in extreme circumstances may receptacles be located in the
front yard. Solid waste receptacles must be within the contiguous confines of
said business’ lot lines, maintaining setbacks. No receptacles may be placed on
a lot detached from an established business.
      (3)   Dumpsters shall be located with a turning radius acceptable to the
GDS driver so as not to jeopardize adjoining buildings, landscaping and other
structures.
      (4)   No dumpster shall be located closer than ten feet from any rear or
side yard line or street right-of-way. The exception is in the C-1 District as
detailed in §
152.028 of this chapter.
         (a)   Where no right-of-way exists, no dumpster shall be located
closer than 15 feet from the centerline of any traveled way.
         (b)   No dumpster shall be located closer than 25 feet from any
stream. For a designated trout stream, per the Division of Water Quality, the
setback shall be 30 feet.
      (5)   Where existing dumpsters are currently located on properties, the
property owner or the leasing tenant owning or leasing the dumpster, shall
relocate the dumpster to the rear or side yard and screen as required. Extreme
hardships shall be reviewed on an individual basis by the Zoning Officer. The
owner or leasing tenant of existing dumpsters shall have one year from the
effective date of this section to comply with these requirements.
   (C)   Screening. Solid waste receptacles shall be screened from visibility
from any adjacent property or right-of-way, except where existing structures,
topography, or vegetation provide screening which meets the standards of this
section. For the purpose of this section, SCREENING shall mean one of the
following:
      (1)   Coated chain link fencing with plastic inserts. Coating and
matching inserts shall be black or green;
      (2)   The same materials as the main structure;
      (3)   Masonry that complies with architectural design standards;
      (4)    Pressure treated wood slats placed no more than one-half inch
apart;
      (5)   Metal shall be used when bear-proofing is needed. Metal shall be
painted a color that blends into the environment, black, brown, or dark green.
      (6)   Where feasible, a row of evergreen shrubs or trees, on all sides
exposed to adjacent property or rights-of-way, excepting the service side,
shall be planted. These shall be planted between three and four feet apart and
not more than five feet from the screening fence. When planted, the plants
shall be a minimum of three feet in height and reach a minimum height of six
feet within three years;
      (7)   If both fencing and plant screening are provided, in accordance
with the requirements listed above, the solid waste receptacle may be located
within five feet of a side or rear property line;
      (8)   All screening shall extend a minimum of six inches above the top of
the solid waste receptacle;
      (9)   Screening shall be located no more than five feet from the
dumpster’s location, and provide a minimum width of 12 feet for the service
entrance;
      (10)   The service entrance doors shall be coated chain link with
matching plastic inserts of black or green. All service entrance doors shall be
maintained closed, except for servicing; and
      (11)   Maintenance of screening materials shall be the responsibility of
the property owner and the tenant leasing the solid waste receptacles. Fencing
that does not meet the standards of this section, or plant material that dies
shall be replaced in accordance with the requirements of this section.v
   (D)   Construction of dumpster sites.
      (1)   All dumpsters shall be placed on a minimum (ten feet by ten feet)
square concrete pad. Concrete shall be six inches thick, 5,000 psi with #4 or
#5 rebar, six inches by six inches WI.4 xWl.4 wire mesh, on a five-inch AB
stone base.* Pad shall have a one-fourth per foot slope toward the entrance to
the pad.
      (2)   Within pad, the back of the screening shall be protected by two
four-inch diameter steel bollard posts, poured solid.
      (3)   The front corners of the gate shall be protected by two four-inch
diameter steel bollard posts, poured solid.
      (4)   There shall be a minimum ten-foot wide by six-foot deep concrete
apron at the entrance to the dumpster pad. Apron shall be six inches thick,
5,000 psi with #4 or #5 - 6"X6" WI.4XWI.4 reinforcement and a five-inch AB
stone base. Alternatively, the apron may be an eight-inch AB stone base with a
three-inch binder and one and one-half asphalt top coat.*
      (5)   Required modifications if business has any type of food service:
         (a)   Dumpster pad shall have two, centrally located drains. One drain
shall be tied to an approved in-line grease trap. After passing through this
trap, drainage shall continue on into the sanitary sewer. This line shall only
be open when dumpster is being cleaned/washed. The second drain shall be open
at all other times and tied to the storm drainage system.
         (b)   The pad shall have a one-fourth inch slope toward the drains.
         (c)   There shall be 11 foot square with a six-inch curb around the
sides and back of the pad.
         (d)   The five-inch stone base will be #67 stone as opposed to AB
stone.
         (e)   Ninety-six gallon or smaller receptacles will be placed on a
masonry pad with approved screening, curbing and drains. If cleaning will be
done in a separate approved can wash facility, tied to an approved inline
grease trap, a second drain will not be required in the receptacle pad.
      (6)   The following recommended details below (at the end of this
section) may be modified and reviewed on an individual basis: notes to aid in
reading details:
         (a)   Five thousand psi means concrete mix gauged to hold 5,000 pounds
per square inch.
         (b)   #4 or #5 means (one-half) inch diameter rebar every ten inches.
         (c)   Six-inch by six-inch WI.4xWI.4 means number 0.4 gage six-inch by
six-inch wire mesh.
         (d)   Eight-inch stone, three-inch binder, one and one-half is the
formula for using asphalt top coat.
         (e)   #67 stone is required under food service pad to facilitate
drainage.
         (f)   *Instead of rebar and wire mesh, 5,000 psi concrete/fiberglass
mix may be used.
      (7)   As dumpster pad construction is a multi-phase process, the
following permit process must be followed:
         (a)   Inspection and approval of drainage system in food service
sites;
         (b)   Inspection and approval of stone, rebar and concrete
construction, slope, size, bollards and apron;
         (c)   Posted compliance to permit before dumpster may be placed; and
         (d)   There will be no charge for this permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1539.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1541.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1543.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1545.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1547.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1549.png]
   (E)   Outdoor storage.
      (1)   Outdoor storage areas of automobiles, machinery, equipment and
building supplies in non- residential districts shall be screened from any
public street or right-of-way and shall be applicable to all zoning districts.
Opaque screening shall consist of a fence, wall, landscaped berm or evergreen
vegetation, which will provide an opaque screening at maturity or within three
years of planting. A combination of evergreen vegetation and fencing may be
used to achieve the required screening; chain link fencing may be used in
combination with evergreen vegetation if the chain link fence is coated in a
natural color such as green.
      (2)   Outdoor storage areas referenced in division (B) above existing at
the time of adoption of this chapter shall submit a screening plan to the
Zoning Administrator within six months of adoption of this chapter. Upon
approval of the screening plan by the Zoning Administrator, screening shall be
installed within one month. Screening plans utilizing landscaping shall have
three years from approval of the screening plan to provide full opaque
screening; as such time will allow for maturity of vegetation. All screening
shall be maintained by the property owner to meet the original screening
ordinance intent.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Ord. passed 7-14-2008; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 708)
§ 152.137 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   General. All sidewalks identified in the town’s Pedestrian Plan, dated
July 2009 shall be constructed in accordance with the town’s sidewalk
construction standards and specifications. In no case shall any sidewalks
identified in the town’s Pedestrian Plan be constructed by standards other than
those specified in the sidewalk construction standards and specifications.
   (B)   Responsibility to construct sidewalk. Whenever a zoning permit is
issued for new commercial or an addition to an existing commercial
construction, which requires architectural review in accordance with §
152.085 of this chapter, in conjunction with property identified in the town’s
Pedestrian Plan, dated July 2009, it shall be the responsibility of the owner
of the property to construct that segment of said sidewalk which adjoins his
property. The town’s Pedestrian Plan having been adopted by the Town Council
shall be permanently kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
The sidewalk shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the town’s
sidewalk construction standards and specifications.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 709)
TREE PRESERVATION
§ 152.150 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and protect the
natural beauty of the town and to encourage better care of trees and vegetation
within the town on both public and private property. It is also of utmost
importance to identify and protect trees deemed historic and of great value.
The value placed on these trees should be based upon the following criteria:
age; size; species; historic significance; ecological value; aesthetics; and
location. A list of identified trees can be found with the Zoning Administrator
and this list may be updated on a regular basis. This chapter will establish a
viable tree management program to be administered by the Planning Board, who
will act as a Tree Board until the town deems it necessary to adopt a separate
Tree Board. Support and participation in the Tree City USA Program will help
guide and support the Tree Board. Lastly, and of utmost importance, this
program will educate the public to the importance of protecting trees; along
with the benefits they provide to our environment.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANSI (AMERICAN NATIONAL STANDARDS INSTITUTE). A guide used in setting
standards for tree work.
      CALIPER. Diameter measurement of the trunk taken six inches above ground
level for trees up to and including four-inch-caliper size. Measurements shall
be taken 12 inches above the ground for larger trees.
      CANOPY. The uppermost layer in a forest, formed by the crowns of the
trees.
      CLEANING. Selective pruning to remove one or more of the following parts:
dead, diseased, and/or broken branches.
      CLEAR CUTTING. The cutting or removal of all trees within an area of 400
square feet or larger.
      DBH (DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT). The diameter of a tree four and one-half
feet above the average ground level.
      DRIP LINE. A vertical line running through the outermost portions of the
tree crown extending to the ground.
      FRONTAGE STRIP. A continuous access strip, exclusive of access driveways,
abutting a public street.
      GENERAL MAINTENANCE. The removal of small branches under one-half
diameter shall not generally be considered injurious to the tree, providing
that such an act does not remove a substantial portion of the canopy of said
tree or otherwise result in a threat to the life or health of said tree.
      GUIDELINES. Guidelines and Specifications of Tree Planting on Public and
Private Property, published by the Planning and Inspections Department.
      HISTORIC TREE. A tree that has been specifically designated by the Town
Council as historic.
      IMPERVIOUS COVER. Building and structure footprints, areas of pavement,
compacted gravel or other compacted areas that, by their dense nature do not
allow the passage of sufficient oxygen and moisture to support and sustain
healthy root growth.
      INJURING A TREE. Any cutting, trimming, pruning or other method of
removing any live part of a live tree shall be considered injurious to the
tree.
      LARGE MATURING TREE. Any tree whose height exceeds 35 feet at maturity.
      LION’S TAILING. The removal of an excessive number of inner, lateral
branches from parent branches; which can injure trees and are not considered
normal pruning practices.
      MAINTENANCE. Proper cultural practices including pruning, fertilization,
pest management and root system protection. The standards of maintenance are
those published by the National Arborists Association.
      PAVED AREA. Any ground surface covered with concrete, asphalt, stone,
compacted gravel, brick or other paving material.
      PERSON. A public or private individual, corporation, company, firm,
association, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution,
utility cooperative or other legal entity.
      PLANNING AND INSPECTIONS DIRECTOR. The head of the town’s Planning and
Inspections Department or his or her designee.
      PRESERVATION. Maintaining a stable environment among mature trees that is
critical in delaying the transition from maturity to decline and death
(prevention of construction damage, root system care, proper tree care
maintenance and the like). TREE CARE PRESERVATION should be proactive and then
reactive.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property that is not owned by a federal, state or local
government.
      REDUCTION. Selective pruning to decrease height and/or spread of a tree.
      REGULATED TREE. Trees that are located on private property and are listed
as the champion or co-champion of the species, either on the “National Big Tree
List”, as compiled by the American Forestry Association or the Champion Big
Trees of North Carolina, as compiled by the state’s Division of Forestry
Resources.
      REPLACEMENT. Replacement of dead, dying, diseased or removed trees with
trees of equal or comparable size, species, vigor and health.
      REMOVAL. The cutting down of any tree and all other acts which cause the
actual removal or the effective removal through damaging, poisoning or other
direct or indirect actions resulting in the death of a tree.
      ROOT PROTECTION ZONE. Generally, 18 to 24 inches deep and a radius
distance from the trunk of the tree equal to one foot for each one inch of
trunk diameter or the outermost drip line of the tree, whichever is greater.
      SMALL MATURING TREE. Any tree whose height is less than 35 feet at
maturity.
      TEMPORARY SERVICE ROUTE. A route, other than a planned permanent driveway
or access route to a structure, which is created and used during the
construction process.
      THINNING. Selective pruning to reduce density of live branches or smaller
trees.
      TOPPING. Any pruning practice that results in pruning back the main
leader stem of the tree or causes disfigurement of the normal shape of the
tree. The reduction of a tree’s size using heading cuts that shorten limbs or
branches back to a predetermined crown limit.
      TOWN. The Town of Banner Elk, North Carolina.
      TOWN ATTORNEY. The Town Attorney for the Town of Banner Elk, North
Carolina, or his or her designee.
      TOWN PROPERTY (PUBLIC PROPERTY). All real property which is owned or
leased by the town or which is maintained by it or any part of town right-of-
way.
      TREE BOARD. A board appointed by the Town Council, made up of citizen
volunteers, to review specific tree issues within the town. The Planning Board
shall act as the Tree Board until such time as it deems it necessary to adopt a
separate board.
      TREE EVALUATION FORMULA. A formula for determining the value of
ornamental trees and shrubs as published by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
      TREE CITY USA PROGRAM. A program sponsored by the Arbor Day Foundation in
cooperation with the USDA Forest Service and the National Association of State
Foresters, providing direction, technical assistance, public attention and
national recognition for urban and community forestry programs. The many
benefits of being a tree city include a framework for action, education, a
positive public image and citizen pride.
      TREE CROWN. The leaves and branches of a tree measured from the lowest
branch on the trunk to the top of the tree.
      UNSAFE TREE. For a tree to be considered unsafe, one of the following
criteria must apply:
         (a)   A combination of a structural defect and a target:
            1.   A structural defect which predisposes the tree to failure
(i.e., dead tree, trunk decay, dead branches, V-crotches); and
            2.   A target such as a structure, road, walkway, campsite or other
area where property exists or people reside.
         (b)   A tree that is otherwise structurally sound, but which tree
routinely interferes with the routine activities of people. Interferences
include obstructions, sight distance problems for motorists, buckling of
sidewalks, attracting lightning or interference with utilities.
      UTILITY SPACE. The physical area occupied by a utility’s facilities and
the additional space required and to ensure its operation.
      WHITEWASHING, PAINTING. Painting or in any way discoloring any portion of
a tree.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.151 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of this subchapter, the Zoning Administrator shall have responsibility and
control over all trees and shrubbery planted or growing in or upon city
property. The Zoning Administrator shall also have responsibility and control
over all regulated trees, unsafe and diseased trees, located upon private
property.
   (B)   Planning Director. The Planning Director shall ensure that the
guidelines set out by the ANSI for tree planting, care, maintenance, removal
and landscape design will be followed.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.152 CREATION OF TOWN’S TREE BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council may establish a tree board, made up of citizen
volunteers. The Volunteer Board shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Assist the Town Manager and/or his or her designee with the
creation, updating, monitoring and management of the town’s tree regulations;
      (2)   Work with the Town Manager and/or his or her designee to prepare an
annual tree replacement, planting and maintenance program; and
      (3)   Work with the Town Manager and/or his or her designee on all other
issues relating to the management and care of the town’s forests.
   (B)   The Board may request information on trees located on town property
and shall receive, in a timely fashion, reports from the Zoning Administrator.
The Board shall receive regular reports on landscaping and buffering plans for
new developments and alterations to existing developments.
   (C)   The Board shall consist of five members appointed by the Town Council
to staggered three-year terms. In addition to the five members appointed by the
Town Council, shall serve as ex-officio voting members of the commission.
Additionally, the Zoning Administrator may appoint ex-officio non-voting
members.
   (D)   (1)   The Board shall select annually from among its members a Chair
and Vice Chair. The Zoning Administrator shall serve as Secretary to the
Commission.
      (2)   All appointed members shall serve a term of three years. Town
Council shall fill vacancies resulting from resignation or from a member’s
failure to attend the required number of meetings for the unexpired term upon
request by the Chairperson. The Board shall formulate and adopt rules of
procedure under which it will operate.
   (E)   The Board shall meet on a regular schedule to be determined at its
first meeting. The first meeting of the Board shall be at the call of the
Planning Director. The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Tree Board shall
serve at the pleasure of the Board. A member may be removed for improper
conduct. This shall include missing more than three consecutive meetings or a
criminal conviction involving an act of moral turpitude.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.153 REGISTRATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY TREE CUTTERS.
   All persons paid compensation to cut or trim trees on private property in
the town and it must be registered in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
The registration shall consist of obtaining a copy of this subchapter, and by
signature, affirm that they will abide by the rules prescribed by this
subchapter. No person shall be allowed to register unless all civil penalties
owed to the town have been paid in full. A property owner shall only hire
persons to cut or trim trees that are registered with the town.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.154 PERMITTING.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Permits shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator for all
activity involving the planting, grading, removal and replacement of trees on
city property, except as noted herein. Permits are also hereby required for all
removal and replacement of regulated trees and historic trees.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all requests for permits for
the planting, grading, removal and replacement of trees and shrubbery on city
property and the removal and replacement of regulated and historic trees. If
the planting, grading, removal or replacement complies with the guidelines, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit and may attach reasonable conditions
to the permit. If the plans do not comply with the guidelines, the permit shall
be denied.
         (a)   Permits shall be valid for 60 calendar days.
         (b)   The town may require the replacement of trees in accordance with
§
152.158 of this chapter as a condition of any permit.
         (c)   A copy of the permit shall be displayed in plain sight on the
property where the trees are being cut.
   (B)   Permit procedure. The application for a permit shall be on a form
provided by the town and signed by the property owner.
   (C)   Standards for granting permits.
      (1)   Public property trees. In determining whether a permit should be
issued for the cutting of trees on public property, the Zoning Administrator
shall consider the following criteria:
         (a)   The condition of the tree with respect to disease, danger of
falling, proximity to existing or proposed structures and interference with
utility services;
         (b)   The necessity to remove trees in order to construct proposed
improvements to allow economic development of property adjacent to public
property;
         (c)   The topography of land and the effect of tree removal on
erosion, soil retention and the diversion or increased flow of surface waters
and coordination with the town’s drainage patterns; and
         (d)   The number of trees existing in the neighborhood on improved
property. The Zoning Administrator shall be guided by the standards established
in the neighborhood and the effect of tree removal upon property values in the
area.
         (e)   The town may require the relocation or replacement of trees as a
condition of issuing the permit, on a one-on-one basis, with replacement trees
having a caliper of one and one-half inch dbh.
      (2)   Private property trees. The Zoning Administrator may issue a permit
for the cutting of live trees or portions of live trees (i.e., limbs or
branches) on private property when such trees are in excess of six inches when:
         (a)   The trees or portions of trees are within 15 feet of the
existing main structure or main structure being constructed on the building
site;
         (b)   The trees or portions of trees are within five feet of an
approved septic tank or septic drain field;
         (c)   The trees or portions of trees are within five feet of a
driveway or parking area, the location of which has been approved by the Zoning
Administrator;
         (d)   The trees or portions of trees pose a hazard to the property
owner and/or other residents;
         (e)   The cutting of the trees or portions of trees promotes the
growth and development of other trees on the lot;
         (f)   The trees or portions of trees are diseased or damaged;
         (g)   The trees or portions of trees are within a temporary service
route, as defined in this subchapter. Approval under these criteria shall
require the replacement of trees on a one-for-one basis in accordance with §
152.158 of this chapter;
         (h)   The removal of trees or portions of trees not meeting the
criteria set forth in divisions (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(g) above may be
permitted pursuant to a landscaping plan that improves the property and is
acceptable to the town. Such a plan shall be designed to minimize the injury,
disturbance or removal of trees not necessary to achieve the specific
objectives of the plan; and
         (i)   With regard to divisions (C)(2)(a), (C)(2)(b) and (C)(2)(c)
above, for new construction no trees or portions of trees shall be cut pursuant
to these criteria until the owner is ready to begin construction as evidenced
by the issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   Detriment minimization. Permits may be granted for trees to be
pruned or limbed for view enhancement. To attempt to minimize the detriment to
the tree of these practices, the standards provided in American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) A300 (Trees, Shrubs and Other Woody Plant
Management, Part 1 - Pruning) shall be followed.
      (4)   Flag and photo required. All trees to be cut or trimmed must be
clearly flagged and photo(s) taken.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.155 INSPECTION OF SITES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may periodically inspect areas subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If through inspection it is determined that a person has failed to
comply or is no longer in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, a
notice to comply shall be served upon that person by registered mail, returned
receipt requested or by hand delivery from the Zoning Administrator. The notice
shall state the violation and describe that which will be necessary to comply
with this subchapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may conduct such investigations as deemed
reasonably necessary to carry out the duties as prescribed in this subchapter
and may enter at reasonable times upon private property, as defined herein, for
the purpose of inspecting trees and shrubbery subject to the provisions of this
chapter. No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized
representative or agent of the city who requests entry for the purposes of
inspection and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person
obstruct, hamper or interfere with such representative while in the process of
carrying out official duties.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.156 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be
notified by the Zoning Administrator of the specific violation by certified or
regular mail, return receipt requested, or by hand delivery. The notice shall
set forth the nature of the violation, the measures required to comply with the
chapter, if compliance is at all practicable, and a reasonable time period
within which compliance must be had.
   (B)   If any aggrieved person disagrees with a decision of the Zoning
Administrator, such person may request a hearing within ten business days of
the receipt of the violation. The request must be in writing and directed to
the Zoning Administrator. The Board of Adjustment (BOA) shall serve as the
appeals board for all tree issues. The owner shall have the right to be
represented by counsel, examine and cross-examine witnesses at said hearing.
The Town Attorney shall serve as the Appeals Board’s legal advisor during said
hearing. The Appeals Board shall render its written decision within 30 days
after the hearing.
   (C)   If any aggrieved party is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Appeals Board, an appeal may be taken to the county’s Superior Court. Notice of
the appeal must be filed within ten business days of receipt of the Appeals
Board’s decision.
   (D)   Any aggrieved party may request an injunction to preserve the status
quo during the pendency of any appeal in accordance with applicable state law.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.157 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Modifications to the requirements of this subchapter may be granted in
writing by the Tree Board or Board of Adjustment in advance of any work being
done due to extenuating circumstances.
   (B)   A review is required if the Administrator finds any of the following
circumstances exist on the site, or surrounding properties such as:
      (1)   Natural land characteristics such as topography or existing
vegetation on the proposed building site would achieve the same intent of this
section;
      (2)   Innovative landscaping or architectural design is employed on the
building site to achieve an equivalent effect;
      (3)   The required screening and landscaping would be ineffective at
maturity due to the proposed topography of the site and or the location of
improvements of the site;
      (4)   The topography of adjacent and surrounding sites is such as to
render required screening ineffective at maturity;
      (5)   Due to the location of utility and transmission lines, the
landscaping requirements would be in conflict with the requirements of the
utility company and verification of such conflict can be provided by the
applicant;
      (6)   If, in the opinion of the Town Manager, the landscaping or
screening required will interfere with traffic safety;
      (7)   Trimming of trees by the town or an approved agent as normal
maintenance; provided, the trimming does not result in the mutilation, death or
destruction of the tress;
      (8)   Any tree, which during a period of emergency or act of God must be
removed so that it will in no way hinder public work to restore order in the
town. Removal shall be by the town or its authorized agent(s);
      (9)   The removal of dead trees or dead portions of a tree. The owner of
the property on which the trees are located bears the burden of proving that
such trees or parts of trees were dead at the time of removal; and
      (10)   The removal or cutting of live trees or portions of live trees
(i.e., limbs or branches) on private property under six inches in diameter and
measuring four feet above ground (at its highest point) with the exception that
provisions regulating clear-cutting as found in §
152.160 of this chapter must be followed.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.158 DISEASED OR DAMAGED TREES.
   The owner of a tree(s) within the town’s zoning jurisdiction, deemed to be a
potential public hazard by the town, will be notified by certified mail that
they must remove said public hazard within 30 days or pay the town the costs of
such remedy as the town sees fit or incurred to have the tree(s) removed. If
the removal of such hazard can be accomplished by pruning, the remedy may be
postponed until said tree(s) is in a dormant state.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.159 DAMAGE TO TREES WITHOUT A PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following actions shall constitute a violation of this subchapter
and shall be subject to the penalties prescribed herein. For trees located on
public property, the following restrictions shall apply to any and all trees,
regardless of size.
   (B)   For trees located on private property, the following restrictions
apply to trees in excess of six inches in diameter, measured four feet above
the ground.
      (1)   Injuring, removal, relocation, general. No person shall, without a
written permit from the town, perform or cause to be performed the following
acts: mutilate, injure, remove and/or relocate any live trees within the town,
or injure or misuse any structure or device placed to protect any such trees.
      (2)   Whitewashing, painting. No person shall, without a written permit
from the town, whitewash, paint or in any way discolor the stem base, bole or
root of any tree in the town, except as authorized by G.S. § 14-159(7).
      (3)   Attaching sings or other devices; obstructing roots. No person
shall, without a written permit from the town, fasten or attach any sign, wire
or electrical attachment or other device in any manner to the trees in the
town, or to guard about the tree, or close or obstruct any open space provided
about the base or root of the tree within three feet in any direction, or in
any way prevent access of air, water or fertilizer to roots of the tree.
Attachment of birdhouses or other small ornamental attachments that do not
substantially threaten the life of a tree is permissible.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.160 CLEAR CUTTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   On lots having a majority of trees less than six inches in dbh, clear-
cutting is not allowed without the approval of the Zoning Administrator. Under
no circumstances can more than 50% of the natural vegetation, equally balanced
across the entire lot, be cut regardless of the size or diameter of the
vegetation, without approval of the Zoning Administrator. The above criteria
for permitting in §
152.154(C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(j) of this chapter will again be followed.
   (B)   On properties with stream bank access, any healthy trees within 50
feet of the stream bank shall be considered protected and will remain as part
of stream bank preservation. This is to ensure a healthy environment should the
risk of flooding occur. Evident dead and diseased trees within the 50-foot
protected stream bank area may be cut but the root system shall remain if
determined not to be a hazard to the waterway.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.161 REPLACEMENT.
   Unless specified otherwise, when any provision of this subchapter creates
the need for trees to be replaced, the replacement shall be accomplished in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (A)   Trees shall be of an appropriate species and type for the location and
elevation in which they will be planted. A list of replacement tree types and
the locations in which they are appropriate are listed below under new plant
material.
   (B)   Tree caliper at the time of replanting shall be a minimum of one and
one-half inches at dbh.
   (C)   Tree replacement shall be accomplished at the next growing season in
accordance with American National Standards Institute ANSI A300 (Part 6 -
Transplanting).
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.162 NEW PLANT MATERIAL.
   (A)   Regionally grown and native species of plants are preferred. Any plant
not listed here can be approved if listed with the Agricultural Extension
Office as a native plant. New plant material shall complement existing site
vegetation, should be mixed with it and should be integrated with all other
natural site features. Plantings should be grouped together or clustered as
opposed to thin linear patterns.
   (B)   Preferred plant materials include the following, but not limited to:
      (1)   Large or medium hardwood canopy trees, including:
         (a)   American sycamore;
         (b)   Beech;
         (c)   Birch or river birch;
         (d)   Black cherry;
         (e)   Black gum;
         (f)   Black locust;
         (g)   Black walnut;
         (h)   Chestnut;
         (i)   Chinquapin;
         (j)   Eastern redbud;
         (k)   Golden rain tree;
         (l)   Hickory;
         (m)   Magnolia;
         (n)   Maple;
         (o)   May tree;
         (p)   Oak;
         (q)   Smoke tree;
         (r)   Sourwood;
         (s)   White ash;
         (t)   White fringed tree; and
         (u)   Yellow poplar.
      (2)   Large or medium evergreen canopy trees, including:
         (a)   American Holly;
         (b)   Hemlock**;
         (c)   Cypress;
         (d)   Larch;
         (e)   Fir;
         (f)   Leyland;
         (g)   Hawthorn; and
         (h)   Spruce.
      (3)   Small flowering understory trees, including:
         (a)   American mountain ash;
         (b)   American yellow wood;
         (c)   Cherry;
         (d)   Crab apple;
         (e)   Flowering dogwood;
         (f)   Forsythia;
         (g)   Fringe tree;
         (h)   Fruit trees;
         (i)   Gray-stemmed dogwood;
         (j)   Hawthorn;
         (k)   Holly (mountain, American);
         (l)   Hydrangea;
         (m)   Lilac;
         (n)   Red-twigged dogwood;
         (o)   Serviceberry;
         (p)   Sourwood; and
         (q)   Witch hazel.
      (4)   Shrubs, including:
         (a)   Arborvitaes;
         (b)   Azalea;
         (c)   Gold thread leaf cypress;
         (d)   Golden elder;
         (e)   Juniper family;
         (f)   Yews;
         (g)   Laurel;
         (h)   Rhododendron;
         (i)   Scottish heather;
         (j)   Viburnum; and
         (k)   Burning bush.
**Hemlocks may not be the best choice because they are prone to disease.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.163 TRIMMING, PRUNING, PLANTING AND REMOVAL OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   No person shall remove, destroy, cut prune or otherwise treat any tree
or shrubbery having its trunk upon any town property or right-of-way or
contract with another person to perform such acts without first obtaining a
written permit from the Zoning Administrator, except as herein set forth.
   (B)   No person shall plant of contract with another to plant any tree or
shrubbery on any town property, except as herein noted, without a permit from
the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Private utilities shall submit written specifications for pruning,
trenching or grading around trees and shrubbery on city property to the Zoning
Administrator for approval. A utility company shall not be required to obtain a
permit for routine maintenance operations affecting trees and shrubbery having
their trunks upon town property so long as such work is done in strict
accordance with the specifications as approved by the Zoning Administrator. A
utility company is required to obtain prior written approval to remove any tree
or shrubbery on town property. Approved written specifications shall be valid
for two years. The utility company must make new specifications or a request
for an additional two-year extension of the previously approved specifications.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.164 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   No person shall place or maintain upon the ground upon any town
property any compacted stone, cement or other impervious matter or substance in
such a manner as may obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots of
any tree or shrubbery. This provision shall not apply to paving, repairing or
altering of town streets, sidewalks and other town property performed by the
town.
   (B)   No person shall perform or contract with another to perform
construction work (including the operation or storage of equipment or
materials) within the drip line of any tree or shrubbery having its trunk on
any town property without first obtaining a permit from the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   No person shall attach any object, including, but not limited to,
rope, wire, chain or sign, to any tree or shrubbery in or upon any town
property or to the guard or stake intended for the protection of such tree or
shrubbery, except for the purpose of protecting it or the public.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.165 PLANTING PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to plant trees and shrubbery in or upon town
property or town right-of-way shall, in addition to applying for a permit,
submit a planting plan or written statement in triplicate to the Zoning
Administrator who shall return one copy to the applicant and keep two copies on
file. All planting plans upon town property shall accurately show the
following:
      (1)   The proposed street width, together with its subdivision of
pavement, curb and gutter, parking strip and sidewalk areas, to a definite
indicated scale.
      (2)   The location of underground and overhead utilities, all poles and
posts, to a definite indicated scale;
      (3)   The proposed location of each and every proposed tree and
shrubbery, together with the location of each existing tree, shrubbery, plant
or vine within the proposed street right-of-way in scaled relation to the other
features to the plan;
      (4)   The variety, height and caliper, where applicable, of each any
every tree and shrubbery proposed to be planted and those already existing
within the proposed street lines, either indicated on the plan or referenced
with a number to a key list;
      (5)   The distance in feet between the tree and shrubbery in any one row;
and
      (6)   The nature of the soil in the planting space to a depth of three
feet and all existing and proposed surface and subsurface drainage system.
   (B)   All written statements filed in lieu of a planting plan shall contain
the same information required on the planting plan, except in the case of
persons not involved in planned development and desires to perform small-scale
landscape plantings on town property. In such a case, a simple letter of intent
outlining the location, method and materials, may be substituted.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.166 TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE KEPT TRIMMED; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Trees, shrubbery, flowers, bushes or vines standing in or upon any lot
or land abutting town property and having branches, limbs, trunks or other
parts projecting onto town property shall be maintained by the owner of the
property on which such tress, shrubbery, flowers, bushes or vines are growing
so as not to interfere with the free and safe passage along the town right-of-
way by pedestrians and vehicular traffic.
   (B)   If the owner of such property does not keep this growth from
projecting onto town property, the Town Manager may order its removal. The
order shall be in writing to the owner and shall be acted upon within 30 days
from the time of the receipt of the order. If, after 30 days, the owner has not
responded or acted to remove the project growth from such trees or plants, then
the Town Manager may request town personnel enter upon the private property to
perform the work necessary to correct the condition and bill the owner for the
actual costs incurred. In situations deemed by the Town Manager to constitute
an imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the Town Manager
may act without prior notification to the property owner.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.167 REMOVAL OF REGULATED OR HISTORIC TREES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may prohibit the removal of a regulated tree
or a tree that has been designated by the Tree Board as historic or
significant.
   (B)   The following factor(s) may be a basis upon which the Zoning
Administrator may deny a permit to remove a regulated tree:
      (1)   There exist no current plan to develop the property;
      (2)   The planned development can be constructed without removed the
regulating tree;
      (3)   The purpose for removal can be accomplished with less drastic
results;
      (4)   The health of the tree;
      (5)   The proposal for replacement of the regulated tree; and
      (6)   Any other factors reasonable conditions to removal. The owner may
appeal the Zoning Administrator’s decision in accordance with §
152.156(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.168 UTILITY RESPONSIBILITY.
   Public and private utility companies which install overhead and underground
utilities (including CATV) shall be required to accomplish all work affecting
trees and shrubbery located on such private property in accordance with the
applicability of this subchapter in its entirety.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.169 UNSAFE TREES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may cause or order to be removed any tree or
part thereof on private property which is unsafe, injurious to the public
welfare or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers or other
public improvements or is infested with an injurious fungus, insect or other
pest.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may enter upon private property in the city
to spray, or otherwise treat or cause or order to be sprayed or otherwise
treated, any tree infected or infested by any parasite, insect or pest when it
shall be necessary to do so to prevent the breeding or scattering of any
parasite or animal pest and to prevent danger there from to persons or property
or to trees planted on town property.
   (C)   When, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the removal of a
tree or shrubbery on private property shall be necessary, under the provisions
of this section, the Zoning Administrator shall have the power to remove such
tree or shrubbery or cause or order the same to be done upon notice and an
opportunity to be heard to the property owner.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to exercising the authority conferred by this section, the
Zoning Administrator shall give the owner notice and an opportunity to correct
the condition by requesting that corrective action be taken. The request shall
be in writing to the owner of the property in question and shall be acted upon
within 30 days (or a lesser period of time if an imminent threat to life or
property exists, from the date of the receipt of the request).
      (2)   If, after 30 days or such less time period, the owner has not
corrected the condition or undertaken action that would lead to a timely
correction of the condition, the Zoning Administrator may enter upon the
property, to direct the town’s Maintenance Department to perform the work
necessary to correct the condition and bill the owner for the actual costs
incurred.
      (3)   In situations involving an imminent threat to the public health,
safety or welfare, the town may act without prior notification to the property
owner, but notice shall be given within a reasonable period thereafter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
§ 152.170 TREE PRESERVATION OVERLAY MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a64eddd076e010c63826febd2e0bd35983158fb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1551.png]
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 152.185 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter is mandatory; except that,
under the specific conditions enumerated in the following sections, the
requirements may be waived or modified as so stated.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 800)
§ 152.186 GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all gasoline service or filling
stations.
   (A)   All buildings shall be located at least 40 feet from any street right-
of-way line.
   (B)   Gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at least
15 feet from any street right-of-way line or 20 feet from the edge of the road,
whichever is greater.
   (C)   Accessory canopy structures may be permitted in the front or side yard
area; provided, the structure shall be located at least ten feet from any
street right-of-way line or 15 feet from the edge of the road, whichever is
greater. The eaves of said structure shall not extend more than three feet into
the required setback. Any signs attached to any accessory canopy structure
shall conform to §§
152.105 through
152.118 of this chapter.
   (D)   All service, storage or similar activities shall be conducted entirely
on the premises.
   (E)   All major repair work, if any, shall be conducted within a completely
enclosed building.
   (F)   Open storage of wrecked or inoperable vehicles, discarded tires, auto
parts or similar material shall not be permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 804)
§ 152.187 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE BUILDINGS AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or locate, place, maintain or
use any manufactured/mobile building, manufactured home, or double-wide
manufactured home within the corporate limits of the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, except as follows:
   (A)   Manufactured/mobile buildings.
      (1)   Mobile buildings may be permitted as a temporary use structure as
defined in §
152.010 of this chapter.
      (2)   A double-wide mobile/modular unit as defined in §
152.010 of this chapter is permitted as a non-residential structure.
      (3)   Mobile buildings used as classroom space may be permitted as a
conditional use in the Medical Educational District as provided for in §§
152.218 and
152.269 of this chapter.
      (4)   The structure while at the site shall be placed on a permanent,
enclosed, masonry foundation, with the wheels and pulling tongue removed.
   (B)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Single-wide manufactured homes shall be permitted only for
residential use and only in manufactured home parks as provided for in §§
152.010 and
152.218 and
152.269 of this chapter.
      (2)   A double-wide manufactured home may be permitted as a conditional
use in accordance with §
152.028 of this chapter when used exclusively for a single-family dwelling unit
and when placed on a building site which conforms with the area and setback
requirements of the zoning districts in which it is proposed to be located. The
double-wide manufactured home shall also conform to the standards and
conditions specified in §§
152.218 and
152.269 of this chapter.
      (3)   The structure shall be placed on a permanent, enclosed, masonry
foundation, with the wheels and pulling tongue removed.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-14-2008; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 805)
§ 152.188 SUBDIVISIONS IN PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   Subdivisions of land within a Planned Residential Development (PRD) and a
Planned Residential-Craft Development (PRCD) may be permitted; provided, the
following standards and requirements are met.
   (A)   The provisions of
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances for minimum lot area and dimensional
requirements may be waived; provided, the applicant for the planned development
shall submit a preliminary plat for approval with the planned development plans
and supporting documentation.
   (B)   The preliminary subdivision plat, submitted with the plans and
documentation for the planned development shall be reviewed in accordance with
the procedures and requirements in §§
151.24 and
151.25 of this code of ordinances. Except as otherwise provided, the
improvements and minimum requirements of the ordinance shall substantially
conform to §§
151.31 and
151.45 through
151.47 of this code of ordinances. The Planning Board and Town Council may
require that other provisions of
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances apply to the proposed subdivision, including
§§
151.06,
151.07 and
151.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   No subdivision of land within a planned development shall be permitted
until said development is completed, or until an approved scheduled phase of
the development is completed. A final plat approval of the lots or tracts to be
subdivided is required prior to the sale of any parcels from the completed
development or a completed scheduled phase.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 807)
§ 152.189 CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS.
   Cluster subdivisions may be permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts in
accordance with the provisions of this section and the requirements of
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances.
   (A)   Location and permitted uses. Cluster subdivisions are permitted in the
R-1 and R-2 Districts. Within a cluster subdivision, permitted uses are limited
to the specific permitted uses allowed in the district where the subdivision is
located.
   (B)   Minimum size of cluster subdivision. The minimum size of a cluster
subdivision shall be five acres, exclusive of any street rights-of-way.
   (C)   Minimum lot size and dimensional requirements. Within an approved
cluster subdivision, the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances and this chapter are waived, provided all
provisions for open space dedication and the required approvals of water and
sewer systems conform with the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances
and policies. A minimum setback of 15 feet shall be established along the
exterior perimeter of the cluster subdivision.
   (D)   Open space requirements.
      (1)   A minimum amount of permanent open space shall be provided in any
cluster subdivision in an amount equal to or greater than the total square foot
reduction in all lots, but in no case less than one contiguous acre. The open
space shall be dedicated for open space use, owned and maintained by a property
owners association. An instrument providing for the dedication, ownership and
maintenance of the open space shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. In
calculating open space requirements, a cluster subdivision may use a maximum of
50% of the following areas or uses:
         (a)   Required setbacks;
         (b)   Lakes or ponds;
         (c)   Rock outcrops; and
         (d)   Slopes exceeding 40%.
      (2)   The required open space area shall be located on land contiguous to
and geographically situated within the subdivision. The required open space is
in addition to the active recreation area described in §
152.032 of this chapter.
   (E)   Utilities. Cluster subdivisions are required to have access and
utilize water and sewer service from the town; provided, however, where town
water and/or sewer service is not available, individual or community systems
may be approved by the Planning Board and Town Council provided the systems are
designed and approved by the appropriate agency prior to the submission of a
preliminary plat.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 4-9-2007; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 808)
§ 152.190 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to recognize and permit home
occupations as limited non- residential business activities in the R-1, R-1-U,
R-2 and M-U Zoning Districts and to regulate such activities. In this regard,
home occupations shall be regulated in order to ensure compatibility with other
uses permitted in residential zoning districts and to protect residential
neighborhoods from potential adverse (e.g., excessive noise, traffic,
nuisances, smoke, odors and the like) associated with home occupations.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Examples of permitted home occupations, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following: accountant; appraisers; architect;
artist; attorney; beauty salon (limited to one chair); barber shop (limited to
one chair); bookkeeping; clock/watch repair; computer repair; consultant;
seamstress; engineer; gun repair; music instruction and tutoring of voice or
instrument; mailings; photography; piano teacher; professional planner; repair
services; tax preparation; telephone answering service; and internet-related
occupations. Uses specifically prohibited include, but are not limited to: auto
and truck repair; auto sales; vehicle painting; storage of construction
materials or equipment; retail or wholesale sales; eating or drinking
establishments.
   (C)   Standards. Home occupations shall be permitted as an accessory use to
a residential use in any R-1, R-2 Zoning Districts and conditional in the R-1-
U and M-U Zoning Districts subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   A home occupation permit is required by the town. The applicant(s)
shall complete and submit an application, as provided by the town, for a home
occupation permit with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Home occupation permit shall be issued only to the individual
occupying the dwelling as his or her residence and conducted only by persons
residing within the residence. Home occupation permits shall not be
transferrable and shall terminate upon the sale of transfer of the property to
a new owner.
      (3)   A home occupation shall be conducted wither within a dwelling
(residence) and/or in the garage associated with the dwelling and shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal use as a residential
dwelling.
      (4)   Home occupations shall not occupy more than 20% of the total floor
area of the dwelling and/or garage used for the home occupation.
      (5)   Home occupations shall comply with all local, county, state or
federal regulations pertaining to the activity pursued.
      (6)   No alteration of the exterior of the dwelling in which the home
occupation is being conducted shall be made which changes the character thereof
as a dwelling.
      (7)   There shall be no visible evidence of the home occupation except
for the provision of one home occupation sign as set forth herein. No other
advertising or business signs are permitted in conjunction with the home
occupation.
      (8)   No outdoor storage, display or sale of materials, commodities,
stock in trade or equipment used in the home occupation shall be permitted.
      (9)   No wholesale sales of items are allowed on the premises. Retail
sales are only permitted as “peer to peer” sales, such as Mary Kay, Avon,
Tupperware and similar home occupations.
      (10)   No equipment or process shall be used in a home occupation which
creates excessive noise, odor, smoke, vibration or glare or electrical
disturbances detrimental to the health, safety, peace, comfort and welfare of
the persons residing in the neighborhood.
      (11)   The home occupation shall not result in any on-street parking or
trespass upon neighboring properties by clients or customers.
      (12)   Traffic generation associated with home occupations shall not
exceed that normally generated by a residential dwelling without a home
occupation.
      (13)   (a)   No sign, other than a nameplate not more than one square
foot in area, or other display that will indicate from the exterior that the
building is being utilized for any purpose other than that of a dwelling and
which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential
character of the neighborhood.
         (b)   Said sign shall be located next to the front entrance of the
building and placed on the building.
      (14)   No person may be employed in the home occupation other than a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
      (15)   No mechanical equipment may be used which causes a nuisance or
safety hazard.
      (16)   No use requiring a special land use permit in any district may be
utilized as a home occupation. Group homes operated on a for-profit basis and
the provision for placement and care of four or fewer children who are not
related within the third degree by blood, marriage or adoption to the person
providing such care in a home are not considered to be home occupations.
      (17)   Hours of operation for the receiving of customers shall be limited
to between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
      (18)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to allow a
customary home occupation that is not listed above; provided, the Administrator
determines that the proposed use will be in harmony with all existing and
potential nearby residential uses and meets all criteria associated with the
customary home occupation listed herein.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 809)
SPECIAL USE STANDARDS
§ 152.205 GENERAL.
   The following standards are applied to specific conditional uses. Before
granting a conditional use, the Board of Adjustment shall find that all
standards for specific uses listed in this section, as well as all standards
listed in §
152.269 of this chapter, have been met.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 900)
§ 152.206 AUTOMOBILE WRECKING, JUNK AND SALVAGE YARDS.
   Automobile wrecking, junk and salvage yards; provided that:
   (A)   All motor vehicles stored or kept in such yards shall be so kept that
they will not catch and hold water in which mosquitoes may breed and so that
they will not constitute a place or places in which rats, mice, or other vermin
may be harbored, reared or propagated;
   (B)   Because of the tendency for salvage yards to promote the breeding of
vermin, no such operation shall be permitted closer than 200 feet from any
established residential zone;
   (C)   All outdoor storage of salvage and wrecking operations shall be
conducted entirely within an enclosed opaque fence, screen or wall, excepting
driveway areas, from eight to 12 feet in height. Such fence, screen or wall for
screening purposes shall be properly painted or otherwise maintained in good
condition;
   (D)   All such yards shall be so maintained as to be in a sanitary condition
and so as not to be a menace to the public health or safety; and
   (E)   The number of vehicular access driveways permitted on any single
street frontage shall be limited to:
      (1)   One driveway where the parcel to be used has a maximum road or
street frontage of 100 feet or less; and
      (2)   Two driveways where the road or street frontage exceeds 100 feet.
Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be limited to 25 feet in width.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 901)
§ 152.207 COMMERCIAL CAMPGROUNDS.
   Commercial campgrounds; provided that:
   (A)    The primary purpose of the facility is for tent and pop-up campers.
Self-contained recreational vehicles are not permitted.
   (B)   A commercial campground shall contain at least five acres. Campsite
design should be limited to 30% of the site for use and 70% devoted to open
space. Minimum camp space size is 3,000sf allowing enough space for a fire pit
or ring if burning is permitted in the campground. No trash burning is allowed
only approved paper and firewood in the fire pit or ring. Fires shall be
extinguished before leaving or retiring.
   (C)   Accessory uses permitted may include structures for offices, laundry,
restroom, and recreation facilities for exclusive use of campsite patrons.
   (D)   The campground must provide buffering and screening to reduce noise
and light affecting adjoining residentially zoned property with consideration
given for existing vegetation and added landscaping, (see §
152.134), to create an immediate opaque buffer.
   (E)   Drainage, sedimentation, and erosion control plans must be approved
and implemented by standards of the North Carolina Department of Natural
Resources and Community Development.
   (F)   All water distribution and sewage disposal system plans must receive
approval from the appropriate state and county officials prior to issuance of a
certificate of compliance.
   (G)   No camp sites, structures, or other facilities may be located closer
than 35 feet from any property line in a residential zone and in no case within
200 feet of an existing residence not associated with campground operations.
   (H)   Noise levels shall respect quiet hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. Use of generators are prohibited.
   (I)   Each campsite shall be left clean and in neat condition by the
campsite user.
   (J)   All sites shall be located on sites with elevations that are not
susceptible to flooding per the FEMA Flood Maps.
   (K)   Tables may be provided at each campsite.
   (L)   Each campsite shall be identified by a permanent numbering system and
be visibly displayed at each campsite.
   (M)   Each campsite shall be limited to a single family or six people per
site. Stays are limited to a 14-day non-renewable consecutive day stay. A 30-
day wait period before reapplying is required.
   (N)   Garbage and trash collection shall be provided in such a manner and at
such locations so as to provide convenient access for patrons and provide
adequate ingress/egress in commercial campgrounds. Bear proofing measures are
required. See §
152.136 Solid Waste Disposal measures in the Banner Elk Zoning Ordinance.
   (O)   Off-street parking shall be provided with a minimum of one space per
campsite. Additional parking shall be provided as needed.
   (P)   Food storage. All food, coolers, equipment used to cook or store food,
and anything that may smell like food (such as toothpaste) must be stored in a
closed locked vehicle or a camping unit made of solid, non-pliable material.
Food may also be stored in food lockers provided in some campgrounds.
   (Q)   No foraging for burning materials shall be allowed within the
campground. Wood may be provided by the camp office or under the supervision of
the camp director. No burning shall be allowed during extremely dry or windy
conditions. A dry hydrant shall be provided at each site that allows a campfire
site. Camp fire sites must be preapproved by the Avery County Fire Marshall for
protection of the grounds and surrounding properties.
   (R)   Dogs, cats, and other pets. A policy by the owner regarding all dogs,
cats, and other pets to include physical restraint measures, clean up, and care
will be provided for all patrons. Vaccinations records must be available for
all pets.
   (S)   Animal and plant life. Wildlife must not be disturbed in any way. A
policy by the owner guiding all patrons to the protection measures needed to
protect the area must be posted in areas where all patrons are sure to see.
   (T)   Security to be provided by the property owner. A mature adult must be
present 24/7 in case of an emergency.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 902)
§ 152.208 MANUFACTURING AND PROCESSING OPERATIONS.
   Manufacturing and processing operations; provided, however, that, no permit
shall be issued except in conformance with §
152.269(B) of this chapter; and, further provided that, these uses are subject
to such conditions as the Board of Adjustment shall require in order to prevent
smoke, odor, noise, dust or other effects that would be detrimental to the
health, safety and general welfare of the community. Where, in the opinion of
the Board of Adjustment, engineering data or other studies are needed to
determine the possible adverse effects of a proposed industry on the health,
safety and welfare of the community, the Board may require the applicant to
submit such data or other studies prepared by competent engineers or other
technical people.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 903)
§ 152.209 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Manufactured home parks; provided that:
   (A)   The minimum area for any manufactured home park shall be two acres;
   (B)   The maximum density shall be eight manufactured homes sites per acre;
   (C)   Not less than five manufactured home sites shall be available at first
occupancy;
   (D)   The minimum lot size for individual manufactured home sites shall be
40 by 80 feet. No manufactured home shall be placed closer than 20 feet to any
other manufactured home or other structures, except customary accessory
buildings for the exclusive use of the manufactured home;
   (E)   All manufactured home sites shall abut upon a driveway of not less
than 20 feet in width. All driveways shall have unobstructed access to a public
street or highway and shall be hard surfaced or of properly compacted gravel,
well-marked and lighted by the manufactured home park owner; and
   (F)   A densely planted buffer strip consisting of evergreen trees or shrubs
shall be located along all sides of the manufactured home park, but shall not
extend beyond the established setback line along any street. Such buffer strip
shall be not less than ten feet in width and shall be composed of trees or
shrubs of a type which at maturity shall be not less than 12 feet in height.
This planting requirement may be modified by the Board of Adjustment where
adequate buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 904)
§ 152.210 PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. The Planned Commercial Development is established to encourage
a more creative approach in land and building site planning for commercial
uses, to encourage a more efficient and aesthetic retail environment and to
achieve a greater flexibility for commercial development in the town’s planning
area.
   (B)   Location. Planned commercial developments are permitted in the C-1, C-
1P and C-2 Districts as a conditional use.
   (C)   Ownership. Land in a planned commercial development shall be under
single ownership or management at the time of construction, or proper assurance
shall be provided in order that the project can be successfully completed.
   (D)   Uses permitted. Within a planned commercial development, a building or
land shall be used only for the uses permitted within the zoning district in
which the development is located. Permitted land uses within a planned
commercial development shall include those provided for in §
152.028 of this chapter that relate to the C-2 Zoning District and allow for
multi-family development were the residential use is no more than 40% of the
total square footage of the building(s) in the proposed development.
   (E)   Dimensional requirements. The Planning Board and the Board of
Adjustment shall evaluate the site development plan in order to determine that
the proposed site design and density of the project is acceptable regarding the
health, safety and general welfare for the commercial development, the patrons
and adjacent properties. All buildings and structures shall conform to the
minimum setback standards for the zoning district in which they are located
along the exterior boundaries of the site. The total building coverage area of
all principal and accessory structures shall not exceed 40% of the gross square
footage of the proposed site.
   (F)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in a manner consistent
with §§
152.070 through
152.073 of this chapter.
   (G)   Paving materials. All drives, parking and loading areas shall be paved
with hard, all-weather surface material.
   (H)   Buffering. If the Board of Adjustment deems necessary, all or part of
the boundaries of the development which abut residentially zoned property shall
be provided with a 15-foot wide buffer strip, upon which evergreen trees or
shrubs shall be planted and maintained; said plantings at maturity shall be at
least ten feet in height.
   (I)   Responsibility of the applicant. When an applicant proposes to
construct a planned commercial development, he or she shall proceed with the
following schedule:
      (1)   Apply in writing to the Board of Adjustment requesting a
conditional use for a planned commercial development. Attached to the
application shall be the following information to be reviewed by the Planning
Board:
         (a)   A site plan map showing the location of all proposed buildings
and accessory uses, parking facilities, open space, utility easements and
drainage, proposed buffer strips and topographic relief (contour interval of
five feet) map to be at an appropriate scale;
         (b)   Gross acreage and/or square footage of the proposed development,
the number and types of structures and accessory buildings, and the percentage
of acreage and/or square footage of all covered space in the proposed
development; and
         (c)   Streets and utilities: All developments containing streets and
utilities designated or planned for acceptance by the town (whether for
immediate or for future acceptance) shall first be reviewed by the Planning
Board before the planned commercial development is approved by the Board of
Adjustment. All streets and utility lines proposed shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with, but not limited to, standards as shown in the
subdivision regulations of the town. All developments with streets and
utilities designated or planned for acceptance by appropriate public agencies
outside the town limits (streets to be accepted by the state’s Department of
Transportation, utilities to be accepted by the town or other appropriate
agency) shall also generally conform to, but not be limited to, the subdivision
regulations of the town, as the subdivision regulations relate to standards for
the one-mile extraterritorial area.
      (2)   Appear in person (or send a duly appointed representative
affiliated with the proposed development) at the Planning Board and Board of
Adjustment meetings at which the proposed application is to be discussed, in
order to answer all pertinent questions which the Planning Board and the Board
of Adjustment may feel necessary to have answered, in order to review said
application.
   (J)   Timing. If no development has occurred pursuant to the issuance of a
conditional use:
      (1)   One year after the date of the conditional use for the planned
commercial development; or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of one 90-day extension of time for starting
development granted by the Board of Adjustment, the conditional use shall
become null and void and the procedures for application and review as outlined
in this section shall be required for any development on subject property.
   (K)   Staged development (phasing). After general construction commences,
the Zoning Administrator shall review, at least once every six months, all
permits issued and compare them to the overall development phasing program. If
he or she determines that the rate of construction substantially differs from
the approved phasing program, he or she shall so notify the developer and the
Board of Adjustment in writing. Thereafter, the Board of Adjustment may issue
such appropriate orders to the developer as it sees fit, and upon continued
violation of this section may order the Zoning Administrator to refuse any
further permits until the project is in general accordance with the approved
phasing program.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1992; Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 4-9-2007; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 905)
§ 152.211 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL-CRAFT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of the planned residential-craft development is to
allow craftsmen an opportunity through a creative approach in land and building
site planning to work and live in the same general area.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within a planned residential-craft development, a
building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling units, excluding mobile homes;
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling units; (exception: multi-family is not a
permitted use within the R-1 District);
      (3)   Craft shops;
      (4)   The residential units and the craft workshops shall be located in
separate structures; if, however the Board of Adjustment determines that a
particular type of craft shop and residential unit would not be incompatible,
then the Board of Adjustment may allow the two uses to locate in the same
structure;
      (5)   Customary accessory buildings, including garages, workshops and
greenhouses, which are an integral part of the planned development; and
      (6)   Private, non-commercial recreational facilities and buildings which
are accessory to the primary residential function of the development, and which
are an integral part of the planned development.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. The Planning Board and the Board of
Adjustment shall evaluate the site development plan in order to determine that
the proposed site design and density of the project is acceptable regarding
health, safety and general welfare for residential living. All buildings and
structures shall conform to the minimum setback requirements for the district
in which the development is located along the exterior boundaries of the site.
   (D)   Density and building coverage. The development shall not exceed a
maximum density of three dwelling units per acre in the R-1 District, and six
dwelling units per acre in the R-2 and C-2 Districts, rounded to the lowest
whole dwelling unit. The total project density shall be determined on the basis
of the gross square footage of the proposed site, less any part of the proposed
site in any street or highway right-of-way. The Board of Adjustment may require
a lower density within a development in order to protect the physical
environment, and ensure adequate access and services to the project and
adjacent properties. The total building coverage space (including covered
parking or storage areas) shall not exceed 40% of the gross square footage of
the proposed site. If the Board of Adjustment deems necessary, all or part of
the boundaries of the development shall be provided with a 15-foot wide buffer
strip, upon which evergreen trees or shrubs shall be planted which at maturity
shall be at least ten feet in height.
   (E)   Responsibility of the applicant. When an applicant proposes to
construct two or more principal buildings (residential and crafts related), he
or she shall proceed with the following schedule:
      (1)   Apply in writing to the Board of Adjustment requesting for a
planned residential-crafts development. Attached to the application shall be
the following information to be reviewed by the Planning Board:
         (a)   A site plan map showing the location of all proposed buildings
and accessory uses, parking facilities, open space, utility easements and
drainage, proposed buffer strips and topographic relief (contour interval of
five feet) map to be at an appropriate scale;
         (b)   Gross acreage and/or square footage of the proposed development,
the number and types of dwelling units and accessory buildings, and the
percentage of acreage and/or square footage of all covered space (including
covered parking or storage area) in the proposed development; and
         (c)   Street and utilities: all developments containing streets and
utilities designated or planned for acceptance by the town (whether for
immediate or for future acceptance) shall first be reviewed by the
Architectural Review Committee before the planned residential-crafts
development is approved by the Board of Adjustment. All streets and utility
lines proposed shall be designed and constructed in accordance with, but not
limited to, standards as shown in the subdivision regulations of the town. All
developments with streets and utilities designated or planned for acceptance by
appropriate public agencies outside the town limits (streets to be accepted by
the state’s Department of Transportation, utilities to be accepted by the town
or other appropriate agency) shall also generally conform to, but not be
limited to, the subdivision regulations of the town, as the subdivision
regulations relate to standards for the extraterritorial area.
      (2)   Appear in person (or send a duly appointed representative
affiliated with the proposed development) at the Architectural Review Committee
and Board of Adjustment meetings at which the proposed application is to be
discussed, in order to answer all pertinent questions which the Architectural
Review Committee and the Board of Adjustment may feel necessary to have
answered, in order to review said application.
   (F)   Timing. If no development has occurred pursuant to the issuance of a
conditional use:
      (1)   One year after the date of the conditional use permit for the
planned residential-craft development; or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of one 90-day extension of time for starting
development granted by the Board of Adjustment, the conditional use shall
become null and void and the procedures for application and review as outlined
in this section shall be required for any development on subject property.
   (G)   Staged development (phasing). After general construction commences,
the Zoning Administrator shall review, at least once every six months, all
permits issued and compare them to the overall development phasing program. If
he or she determines that the rate of construction of residential units or non-
residential structures substantially differs from the approved phasing program,
he or she shall so notify the developer and the Board of Adjustment in writing.
Thereafter, the Board of Adjustment may issue such appropriate orders to the
developer as it sees fit, and upon continued violation of this section, may
order the Zoning Administrator to refuse any further permits until the project
is in general accordance with the approved phasing program.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 900)
§ 152.212 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. The Planned Residential Development is established to
encourage a more creative approach in land and building site planning for
residential uses, to encourage an efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of
open space, and to achieve flexibility and incentives for residential
development which will produce a wider range of choice in satisfying the
changing need for residential development in the town area.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within a planned residential development, a building
or premises shall be used for the following purposes only:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling unit, excluding manufactured homes;
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling units;
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, non-
commercial workshops, greenhouses, clubs, inns and lodges which are accessory
to the primary residential function of the development, and which are an
integral part of the planned development;
      (4)   Private, non-commercial recreational facilities and buildings which
are accessory to the primary residential function of the development, and which
are an integral part of the planned development; and
      (5)   Mixed uses may be included with limited commercial activities,
which complement the residential development. Integration of commercial uses
may be considered upon a recommendation of the Planning Board and at the
determination of the Board of Adjustment as a conditional use. No commercial
uses are permitted by right. Only neighborhood type service and light retail
uses can be considered with a limit of 40% of the total building(s) square
footage being commercial.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. The Architectural Review Committee and the
Board of Adjustment shall evaluate the site development plan in order to
determine that the proposed site design and density of the project is
acceptable regarding health, safety and general welfare for residential living.
All buildings and structures shall conform to the minimum setback requirements
for the district in which the development is located along the exterior
boundaries of the site.
   (D)   Density and building coverage. The development shall not exceed the
density of the district in which the development is located, rounded to the
lowest whole dwelling unit. The total project density shall be determined on
the basis of the gross square footage of the proposed site, less any part of
the proposed site in any street or highway right-of-way. The Board of
Adjustment may require a lower density within a development in order to protect
the physical environment, and ensure adequate access and services to the
project and adjacent properties. The total building coverage space (including
parking or storage areas and all impervious surfaces) shall not exceed 40% of
the gross square footage of the proposed site. If the Board of Adjustment deems
necessary, all or part of the boundaries of the development shall be provided
with a 15-foot wide buffer strip, upon which evergreen trees or shrubs shall be
planted which at maturity shall be at least ten feet in height.
   (E)   Responsibility of the applicant. When the applicant proposes to
construct two or more principal buildings (residential), he or she shall
proceed with the following schedule:
      (1)   Apply in writing to the Board of Adjustment requesting a
conditional use for a Planned Residential Development. Attached to the
application shall be the following information to be reviewed by the Planning
Board:
         (a)   A site plan map showing the location of all proposed buildings
and accessory uses, parking facilities, open space, utility easements and
drainage, proposed buffer strips and topographic relief (contour interval of
five feet) map to be at an appropriate scale; and
         (b)   Gross acreage and/or square footage of the proposed development,
the number and types of dwelling units and accessory buildings, and the
percentage of acreage and/or square footage of all covered space (including
covered parking or storage areas and all impervious surfaces) in the proposed
development.
      (2)   Appear in person (or send a duly appointed representative
affiliated with the proposed development) at the Architectural Review Committee
and the Board of Adjustment meetings at which the proposed application is to be
discussed, in order to answer all pertinent questions which the Architectural
Review Committee and the Board of Adjustment may feel necessary to have
answered, in order to review said application.
   (F)   Streets and utilities. All developments containing streets and
utilities designated or planned for acceptance by the town (whether for
immediate or for future acceptance) shall first be reviewed by the
Architectural Review Committee before the planned residential development is
approved by the Board of Adjustment. All streets and utility lines proposed
shall be designated and constructed in accordance with, but not limited to,
standards as shown in the subdivision regulations of the town. All developments
with streets and utilities design or planned for acceptance by appropriate
public agencies outside the town limits (streets to be accepted by the state’s
Department of Transportation, utilities to be accepted by the town or other
appropriate agency) shall also generally conform to, but not be limited to, the
subdivision regulations of the town, as the subdivision regulations relate to
standards for the extraterritorial area.
   (G)   Timing. If no development has occurred pursuant to the issuance of a
conditional use:
      (1)   One year after the date of the conditional use for the planned
residential development; or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of one 90-day extension of time for starting
development granted by the Board of Adjustment, the conditional use shall
become null and void and the procedures for application and review as outlined
in this section shall be required for any development on subject property.
   (H)   Phased development. After general construction commences, the Zoning
Administrator shall review, at least once every six months, all permits issued
and compare them to the overall development phasing program. If he or she
determines that the rate of construction differs from the approved phasing
program, he or she shall so notify the developer and the Board of Adjustment in
writing. Thereafter, the Board of Adjustment may issue such appropriate orders
to the developer as it sees fit, and upon continued violation of this division
(H) may order the Zoning Administrator to refuse any further permits until the
project is in general accordance with the approved phasing program.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-9-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 907)
§ 152.213 PUBLIC UTILITY BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES.
   Public utility buildings and facilities, if such use is essential for the
service of the immediate area; provided that:
   (A)   All buildings shall be located at least 35 feet from any lot line;
   (B)   Fences and/or other appropriate safety devices are installed to
protect the public safety and welfare;
   (C)   No vehicles or equipment are stored, maintained or repaired on the
premises;
   (D)   All structures are in keeping with the residential character of the
neighborhood; and
   (E)   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be provided to
ensure compatibility with the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 908)
§ 152.214 RADIO AND TELEVISION TRANSMITTING STATIONS AND STUDIOS.
   Radio and television transmitting stations and studios; provided that:
   (A)   Such facilities shall be housed in structures which are in keeping
with the character of the residential neighborhood;
   (B)   No structure shall be located within 35 feet of any lot line; and
   (C)   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be provided to
ensure compatibility with the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 909)
§ 152.215 RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS AS AN ACCESSORY USE.
   Residential dwellings as an accessory use, including single and multi-family
dwellings, but excluding mobile homes; provided that, the following conditions
be met.
   (A)   The residential unit or units shall constitute less than 50% of the
heated floor space of the structure in which it is located.
   (B)   The number of dwelling units permitted on a lot shall conform to the
minimum lot size standards of the R-2 General Residential District.
   (C)   One off-street parking space per dwelling unit shall be provided in
addition to any other parking spaces required for the primary use of the
property.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 910)
§ 152.216 BED AND BREAKFAST HOMES AND BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   Bed and breakfast homes and bed and breakfast inns may be issued as a
conditional use in districts specified in this chapter; provided, the following
standards and conditions of this section and §
152.269 of this chapter are met, and the proposed facility is compatible with
the residential character of the area in a residentially zoned district and
does not negatively affect the health, safety and general welfare of adjacent
properties.
   (A)   The owner or manager shall permanently reside in the business complex
or premises.
   (B)   Prior to approval of a building or buildings for either bed and
breakfast facility, the Board of Adjustment shall receive a written notice from
the county’s Health Department that the facility is approved for a bed and
breakfast home or inn.
   (C)   Prior to approval of a building or buildings for either bed and
breakfast facility, the Board of Adjustment shall receive a written notice from
the town’s Fire Chief that the site and structures have been reviewed, that
adequate water is available and that access to the structure or structures is
sufficient for providing fire protection to the facility and adjacent
properties.
   (D)   Plans for structural modifications, access, parking and landscaping
shall be reviewed in order to determine the compatibility of the facility with
adjacent development.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may require new or additional landscaping and
screening for the facility and the parking if it is determined that the
existing visual screening is inadequate.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 912)
§ 152.217 RESORT COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   As permitted in the RC District, developments shall include lodging
and/or residential development as the principal use of the project. All other
recreational and commercial uses shall be accessory uses and shall be developed
in accordance with an overall development plan. If developed in phases, the
principal use or uses shall be included in the first phase. Performance
guarantees may be required to ensure that the facilities are constructed in
accordance with the approved plan.
   (B)   Residential development shall conform to the minimum standards of the
R-2 District for single- and multi-family development.
   (C)   Lodging facilities may include bed and breakfasts, and hotels or
motels; provided, the development meets the requirements of §
152.216 of this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory recreational and commercial uses permitted in conjunction
with the primary facility are to be designed to primarily serve the patrons and
residents of the development.
   (E)   In addition to the requirements specifically defined or referenced
herein, the developments shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Parking. All uses within the development shall be provided parking
in accordance with §§
152.070 through
152.073 of this chapter.
      (2)   Signage. The development is permitted one free-standing sign per
entrance or road frontage in accordance with §§
152.105 through
152.118 of this chapter and the standards for signs in the C-1, C-1P, C-2, M-
E and M-1 Districts. The sign shall display only the name of the development.
      (3)   Water and sewer. The Board of Adjustment may require that a
development approved by conditional use in the RC District connect to the
town’s water and/or sewer system.
      (4)   Screening and design requirements. The Board of Adjustment may
require visual screening and buffers to mitigate or reduce the visual, noise or
traffic impact on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Design review. The Board of Adjustment may require site development
and architectural and facade designs that will be compatible with the natural
features of the site and adjacent development.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 913)
§ 152.218 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE/MODULAR BUILDINGS AS ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE/
CLASSROOM SPACE.
   (A)   Mobile buildings as administrative office or classroom space may be
allowed as a conditional use in the Medical Educational District; provided
that:
      (1)   All mobile buildings used for administrative office or classroom
space shall be located in the rear of the principal building and/or screened
from public view;
      (2)   The appearance of mobile buildings shall be in harmony with
existing buildings and the standards of §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter;
      (3)   Landscaping of the site shall be in accordance with the standards
of §§
152.130 through
152.137 of this chapter;
      (4)   The wheels, axles, hitch or other appurtenances of mobility shall
be removed and the mobile building shall be placed on a permanent masonry
foundation;
      (5)   The number of units shall be considered on a case by case basis;
and
      (6)   The maximum amount of time that any mobile building used for
administrative office and/or classroom space may remain on a property shall be
one two-year term. At the end of the two-year term, the Board of Adjustment may
extend the life of the conditional use permit one additional year. To be
eligible for the extension, the applicant must apply prior to the expiration of
the current permit.
   (B)   Modular buildings that are being used for administrative offices and/
or classroom space and have been placed upon a permanent masonry foundation can
remain on the site as long as needed. The modular building must be
appropriately landscaped and meet the remaining guidelines of this chapter.
   (C)   Rented modular buildings must be placed on a permanent masonry
foundation and once the unit is removed, the foundation materials must also be
removed.
   (D)   In the event the use of the building ceases to be administrative
office or classroom space, said building shall be removed from the property.
   (E)   In the event the property ceases to be zoned Medical-Educational, all
mobile buildings shall be removed.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 12-21-2010; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 914)
§ 152.219 MATERIAL RECOVERY SITES.
   Material recovery sites may be permitted as a conditional use in the G-O and
C-2 Districts; provided that:
   (A)   All material recovery sites shall be so kept as to not catch and hold
water in which mosquitoes may breed, and kept so that they will not constitute
a place or places in which rats, mice or other vermin may be harbored, reared
or propagated;
   (B)   All material recovery sites shall be conducted entirely within an
enclosed opaque fence, screen or wall, excepting driveway areas, from eight to
12 feet in height. Such fence, screen or wall for screening purposes shall be
maintained in good condition at all times;
   (C)   All material recovery sites shall be maintained in a sanitary
condition and not allowed to become a menace to the public health or safety;
   (D)   All material recovery sties shall be so operated as to not emit odor,
noise and dust detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare;
   (E)   The appearance of all material recovery site buildings shall be in
harmony with the standards of the architectural review guidelines;
   (F)   Landscaping for all material recovery sites shall be in harmony with
the standards of the architectural review guidelines;
   (G)   All material recovery sites shall have traffic circulation patterns so
as to ensure safe traffic flow with respect to ingress/egress and loading/
unloading;
   (H)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be limited to 30 feet in
width;
   (I)   The water distribution and sewage disposal system plans for the
materials recovery site must receive approval from the appropriate town, county
and state officials;
   (J)   Off-street parking must comply with the requirements of §
152.107 of this chapter; and
   (K)   All signs must comply with the requirements of §
152.110 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 915)
§ 152.220 TOURIST COURTS.
   Tourist courts may be issued as a conditional use in districts specified in
this chapter; provided, the following standards and conditions of this section
and §
152.269 of this chapter are met, and the proposed facility is compatible with
the residential character of the area in a residentially zoned district and
does not negatively affect the health, safety and general welfare of adjacent
properties:
   (A)   The owner or manager shall permanently reside next to or on the
premises;
   (B)   Submission of a master site plan as specified in §
152.010 of this chapter;
   (C)   Submission of a landscape plan;
   (D)   Prior to approval of a building or buildings, the Board of Adjustment
shall receive written notice from the county’s Health Department that the
facility is suitable for use as a tourist court;
   (E)   Prior to approval of a building or buildings for a tourist court, the
Board of Adjustment shall receive a written notice from the town’s Fire Chief
that the site and structures have been reviewed, that adequate water is
available, and that access to the structure or structures is sufficient for
providing fire protection to the facilities and adjacent properties;
   (F)   The maximum coverage of the lot shall be not more than 50% of the
total land area;
   (G)   Two parking spaces per lodging unit shall be required; and
   (H)   The building or buildings shall comply with §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 916)
§ 152.221 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Sexually-oriented businesses may be issued a conditional use permit in the
C-1P District; provided that, the following standards and conditions of this
section and §
152.269 of this chapter are met, and the proposed facility is compatible with
the commercial character of the area and does not negatively affect the health,
safety and general welfare of adjacent properties:
   (A)   A vegetative buffer of evergreen trees is installed that at maturity
reach no less than ten feet in height and ten feet in width;
   (B)   The business complies with §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter;
   (C)   A landscape plan is submitted to the town;
   (D)   Plans for any structural modifications, ingress and egress and parking
are submitted;
   (E)   Written notification from the town’s Fire Chief that the site and
structures have been reviewed, that adequate water is available; and
   (F)   All drives, parking and loading areas shall be paved with hard, all
weather surface material.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 917)
§ 152.222 BED AND BREAKFAST VILLAGE.
   Bed and breakfast village may be issued as a conditional use in districts
specified in this chapter; provided, the following standards and conditions of
this section and §
152.269 of this chapter are met, and the proposed facility is compatible with
the residential character of the area in a residentially zoned district and
does not negatively affect the health, safety and general welfare of adjacent
properties:
   (A)   The owner or manager shall permanently reside next to or on the
premises;
   (B)   Submission of a master site plan as specified in §
152.010 of this chapter;
   (C)   Submission of a landscape plan;
   (D)   Prior to approval of a building or buildings, the Board of Adjustment
shall receive written notice from the county’s Health Department that the
facility is suitable for use as a bed and breakfast village;
   (E)   Prior to approval of a building or buildings for a bed and breakfast
village, the Board of Adjustment shall receive a written notice from the town’s
Fire Chief that the site and structures have been reviewed, that adequate water
is available and that access to the structure or structures is sufficient for
providing fire protection to the facilities and adjacent properties;
   (F)   The maximum coverage of the lot shall be not more than 40% of the
total land area;
   (G)   Parking shall meet the standards of §§
152.070 through
152.073 of this chapter; and
   (H)   The building or buildings shall comply with §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 918)
§ 152.223 MINIATURE GOLF COURSES.
   Miniature golf courses can be seasonal in nature and may be permitted in the
C-2 General Business District as a conditional use; provided that, the
following standards and conditions of this section have been met and that the
proposed course meets all the requirements imposed on it by this chapter.
   (A)   The course shall be screened from any major thoroughfare so as not to
be a distraction to traffic or endanger the traffic with loose balls. It should
be recommended that a landscaped parking lot separate the course from a major
thoroughfare, but if this is not possible, then buffering can be used to
achieve this.
   (B)   Lighting will be pointed downward and away from the road and shall not
remain on after 11:00 p.m. Operation of the course will cease after 10:30 p.m.
   (C)   Any music or other noise shall conform to
Ch. 93 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   No amusement equipment, machinery or mechanical device of any kind
with moving parts, or stationary may be operated within the property.
   (E)   Parking shall be provided according to §§
152.070 through
152.073 of this chapter.
   (F)   A “temporary use structure” may be allowed as per §
152.010 of this chapter if a permanent structure is planned for this use.
Should the operator decide to remain in business, such structure shall be
removed within one year. Upon the discretion of the Zoning Officer, the
temporary structure may be granted up to one six-month extension.
   (G)   As this is a use typically located within a floodplain area, any
structures, surface or otherwise, must have an engineer’s certification of
compliance with safety as it relates to surrounding properties. In addition,
compliance with §
152.033 of this chapter shall be a part of the plan.
   (H)   A bond may be required at the discretion of the town. Should the
owner/operator use concrete as a method of designing the course and the course
be abandoned for a period longer than one year; the bond will be used to remove
any concrete and clean up any debris left from the vacated property.
   (I)   The course shall not incorporate any large theme park type structures
(i.e., dinosaurs, pirate ships, windmills and the like), but should resemble a
smaller version of regulation golf courses.
   (J)   Trash receptacle(s) shall be located strategically throughout the park
as to provide adequate refuse collection.
   (K)   Landscaping shall be an integral part of the site plan to help the
walkways and greens blend in with the surrounding property and to serve as a
natural buffer, establishing a more garden type setting.
   (L)   Any outdoor storage shall be screened from public view.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 4-14-2008; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 920)
§ 152.224 CONDITIONAL USE DISTRICT (CUD).
   (A)   Intent. The conditional use district approval process is established
to address those situations when a particular use may be acceptable, but the
general zoning district which would allow the use would not be acceptable. It
allows the Planning Board and the Town Council the ability to approve a
proposal for a specific use with reasonable conditions while assuring
compatibility of the use with surrounding properties. This is a voluntary
procedure that must be initiated by the property owner. Approval of a petition
for conditional use district zoning shall result in the zoning classification
being changed to the requested conditional use district designation and the
issuance of a conditional use permit simultaneously.
   (B)   Responsibility of applicant. No conditional use district shall be
established until after the person proposing the district has submitted a
petition for the rezoning of property and a conditional use permit application.
Every petition for rezoning of property to a conditional use district shall be
accompanied by a site plan containing any pertinent information that pertains
to the site and the proposed use. In the course of evaluating the proposed use,
the Planning Board and the Town Council may request additional information
deemed appropriate to provide a complete analysis of the proposal and
consideration of the conditional use permit. A statement analyzing the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be prepared for each petition for
a rezoning to a conditional use district and should accompany the conditional
use permit.
   (C)   Town procedures for approval. The Town Council may approve the
rezoning of property to a conditional use district only upon determining that
the proposed use will meet all the standards and requirements that are
applicable to the proposed use. The Planning Board and the Town Council may
attach reasonable and appropriate conditions to approval of the petition. When
deciding the conditional use permit, the Town Council shall use quasi-judicial
procedures. Any such conditions should relate to the relationship of the
proposed use to surrounding properties, proposed support facilities such as
parking areas and driveways, pedestrian and vehicular systems, screening and
buffer areas, the timing of any development, road and right-of-way
improvements, solid waste management, water and sewer improvements, storm water
drainage, the provision of open space and any other matters that the Planning
Board and the Town Council may find appropriate or that the petitioner may
propose.
   (D)   Zoning ordinance and map. If a petition is approved under this
section, the district that is established, the approved petition, the approved
conditional use permit, and all conditions which may have been attached to the
approval are binding on the property as an amendment to this chapter and the
Zoning Map. Only those uses and structures indicated in the approved petition,
site plan and the conditional use permit shall be allowed on the subject
property.
   (E)   Alterations to established CUD. Any minor changes in the detail of the
site plan which will not alter the basic relationship of the proposed use to
surrounding properties or the standards and requirements of these regulations
or to any conditions attached to the approval may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator without going through the amendment process. The Zoning
Administrator, at his or her discretion, may forward any changes in detail to
the Planning Board and/or the Town Council for review. If the applicant does
not comply with the conditional use permit, the property shall revert back to
the original zoning and the use will be subject to §
152.999 of this chapter. The applicant may appeal the decision of the Zoning
Administrator to the Town Council for review and decision as per §
152.270 of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall periodically inspect
the conditional use permit to ensure that all is in compliance.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-13-2009; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 921)
§ 152.225 INCUBATORS.
   (A)   Intent. The town recognizes the importance of stimulating economic
activity for the citizens of the town and county. The very nature of incubators
is one of shared support to facilitate starting a new business. It is also
recognized that there is a wide array of uses that can be incorporated into an
incubator setting, some permitted and some conditional and that these uses will
rotate out according to their contact with the incubator organization. It is
because of these conditional uses that we establish this section as a way of
incorporating those into the conditional use permits process with minimal
impact to the neighboring businesses and the community at large.
   (B)   Uses, permitted. All permitted uses in the Medical Educational Zoning
District are allowed:
      (1)   Assisted living residences; residential care facilities;
      (2)   Animal hospital or veterinary clinic, excluding open kennels on the
premises;
      (3)   Assembly halls, gymnasiums and similar structures as the principle
use;
      (4)   Colleges, vocational and trade schools;
      (5)   EMS;
      (6)   Gift/novelty shop;
      (7)   Hospitals, medical clinics and offices (not to include drug or
alcohol treatment facilities);
      (8)   Libraries, museums and art galleries;
      (9)   Music and dance studios;
      (10)   Pharmacy;
      (11)   Private kindergartens or nursery schools;
      (12)   Public parks, with associated facilities, such a playgrounds,
swimming pools;
      (13)   Radio and television stations, studios and offices; and
      (14)   Schools - public elementary, junior high and high school,
including private schools having a similar curriculum.
   (C)   Uses, additional permitted. The following are additional permitted
uses in an incubator setting consistent with the definition stated above and
the other terms of this section:
      (1)   Antique and consignment shops;
      (2)   Appliance sales and service, repairs;
      (3)   Bakery (sold on premises);
      (4)   Bicycle sales and repair;
      (5)   Coffee shop and/or dairy bar;
      (6)   Contractors office (only, no materials stored on site);
      (7)   Dry cleaning pick-up site, tailor (no actual dry cleaning
activities);
      (8)   Financial institutions;
      (9)   Florists;
      (10)   General merchandise store less than 1,000 square feet;
      (11)   Locksmith;
      (12)   Medical supply store;
      (13)   Newspaper offices;
      (14)   Office supply and equipment - sales and service;
      (15)   Offices - business, professional and public;
      (16)   Personal care services - hair, nails, tanning, weight loss;
      (17)   Photographic studios and camera supply store;
      (18)   Printing, publishing and reproducing establishment;
      (19)   Restaurant, carry-out, delivery, sit-down;
      (20)   Shoe repair; and
      (21)   Web site design.
   (D)   Uses, conditional. All other uses are conditional and shall appear
before the Board of Adjustment and meet the following criteria for approval
prior to starting their business in an incubator.
      (1)   A Schedule B privilege license shall be required, as per §
110.16 of this code of ordinances, for each business that is part of the
incubator.
      (2)   No uses shall be permitted that shall cause run-off of toxic
chemicals from the site into the
town’s wastewater system or that would indirectly affect natural waterways.
      (3)   Parking shall be in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this chapter.
      (4)   Observance of any restrictions for the Heritage District Overlay
must be met and any proposed changes to the property shall require prior
approval by the Preserve America Committee.
      (5)   Signs shall be in conformance with all of §§
152.105 through
152.118 of this chapter. No parking of vehicles with advertising covering more
than 50% of the vehicle shall remained parked on site after hours. No flashing
signs, outdoor advertising or neon signage of any type shall be allowed. The
incubator may use a non-electronic changeable copy sign for event advertising,
as long as it complies with all other requirements of §§
152.105 through
152.118 of this chapter.
      (6)   Waste receptacles shall follow the guidelines in §
152.136 of this chapter for all waste.
      (7)   No storage of any materials, parts, equipment, machinery and/or
supplies shall be allowed
outside. All materials pertaining to a business must be stored on site with the
business or in a designated storage room.
      (8)   Impact on neighboring properties. Businesses in the incubator shall
not have a negative impact on the neighboring properties and must be found to
be in harmony with the surrounding community.
      (9)   The educational component of the proposed conditional use must be
demonstrated to the Board of Adjustment such that the Board of Adjustment finds
such plan to be a credible and substantial component of the business
undertaking.
      (10)   All incubators must submit an acceptable admissions criteria that
outline and meet requirements for the following categories:
         (a)   Criteria for new or early stage business;
         (b)   Criteria for “distressed businesses”;
         (c)   Viability;
         (d)   Completed plan that outlines the following items:
            1.   A site plan of the property, to include the identification of
neighboring properties;
            2.   A floor plan with the proposed uses of the spaces where
possible;
            3.   Hours of operation of the incubator;
            4.   Proposed signage for the incubator;
            5.   A comprehensive parking plan;
            6.   A plan for solid waste disposal with screening;
            7.   A calculation of spaces identified for anchor businesses;
            8.   A landscaping plan;
            9.   A lighting plan; and
            10.   Specifications of the grease trap for the culinary school’s
needs.
         (e)   Requirements for graduation;
         (f)   Employment opportunities;
         (g)   Professional environment;
         (h)   Fit in the community;
         (i)   Educational component;
         (j)   Experience;
         (k)   Cooperative environment;
         (l)   Limited duplication of existing businesses;
         (m)   Non-profit business;
         (n)   Criteria for admissions as an “established business”;
         (o)   Graduation requirements; and
         (p)   Criteria for “anchor businesses”.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 6-11-2012; Ord. passed 9-10-2012; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 922)
§ 152.226 BREWERIES, DISTILLERIES, WINERIES.
   (A)   Intent. The town recognizes the increasing popularity of this type of
industry and finds that by nature of the restrictive regulations of both state
and federal, considers these additional conditions. Therefore, the following
conditions shall apply in the town’s zoning jurisdiction:
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   No outside storage of raw materials;
      (2)   No outside storage of spent grain. Accumulated grains must be
disposed of within 24 hours after a batch is finished;
      (3)   No drive-through windows;
      (4)   Ability to provide off-street loading and unloading for all
materials;
      (5)   For microbreweries: Size is usually determined by the number of
barrels produced each year. Microbreweries are limited to no more than 15,000
barrels per year;
      (6)   Discharge into the town’s wastewater system must be pre-approved by
the Town Manager and the wastewater treatment plant operator;
      (7)   For distilleries: the town requires that all distillery facilities
be located in a standalone building whereby they are the only occupants in
order to protect against fire and/or explosion; and
      (8)   For distilleries: because spirituous liquor is the end product,
“distillery” would not include industrial distilleries, such as for the
production of ethanol for use as a fuel.
   (C)   Parking. Parking shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   One space for each 500 square feet of floor space, plus one space
for each employee; and
      (2)   All other requirements of parking in §§
152.070 through
152.073 of this chapter must be met.
   (D)   Involvement areas. Public involvement areas for demonstration,
education, retail and tasting shall be included in all settings.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 923)
§ 152.227 TELECOMMUNICATION STRUCTURE.
   Refer to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 924)
§ 152.228 HELIPORTS.
   (A)   Land requirement for a privately operated heliport is any tract of
three acres or more.
   (B)   Dimensions must be at least 20 square feet for the landing pad. A
safety area of 35 feet on each side is to be maintained with no structures
located within this radius. There must also be a 300-foot strip on either side
of the 35-foot safety area to be kept clear as a “take-off” zone.
   (C)   Equipment needed: a wind indicator (wind sock), warning signs and
rescue and emergency equipment; like a fire extinguisher.
   (D)   Required markings for identification purposes: the location where the
helicopter is to land on the pad must be marked along with numbers inside the
circle to reference the maximum weight limit of the landing zone.
   (E)   Lighting around the surface of the landing area designating the exact
area the craft would touch down. The lights are required to be green LED
lights. In addition, the landing zone is required to light up the wind cone and
also provide general flood lights to help illuminate the surrounding area on
the ground if landing at night. The flood lights should be crafted as to shine
towards the ground and not into the night sky. Use of lights between the hours
of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. is not authorized.
   (F)   Permitting and approvals required by the Federal Aviation
Administration must be met.
   (G)   Hours of operation: heliport landings shall be conducted between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 7-10-2017; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 925)
§ 152.229 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.
   Recreational vehicle parks are allowed as a conditional use in accordance
with the following regulations.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle parks are only allowed in the RC Zoning Districts
only as a conditional use.
   (B)   Site plans shall be submitted with the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of owner(s);
      (2)   Vicinity map drawn to scale of one inch equals 1,000 feet;
      (3)   Name of recreational park;
      (4)   Number of lots, sizes and boundaries;
      (5)   Roads, rights-of-way and turnarounds with a radius of 45 feet;
      (6)   Total acreage;
      (7)   Conceptual layout of lots and distances of lots;
      (8)   Schematic layout showing utilities, electrical hook ups;
      (9)   All utilities are to be located underground;
      (10)   Grading and drainage plans;
      (11)   Time schedule of development;
      (12)   Streams;
      (13)   Flood hazard areas;
      (14)   Wetlands;
      (15)   Water shed areas;
      (16)   Open space;
      (17)   Location of solid waste disposal area(s);
      (18)   Fire protection plan;
      (19)   Accessory buildings (if allowed);
      (20)   Overflow parking area;
      (21)   Buffer and riparian buffer areas identified;
      (22)   Landscaping and screening plan;
      (23)   Lighting plan;
      (24)   Signage proposed and location; and
      (25)   Amenities and accessory areas.
   (C)   The minimum size for a recreational vehicle park, including permitted
accessory uses, is five acres. The lot sizes are 20,000 square feet with well
and septic, 15,000 square feet with either well or septic services provided by
the town and 8,000 square feet for water and wastewater services both provided
by the town. The lots are to be numbered and may not be subdivided or
individually sold. Lots must have 20 feet of road frontage.
   (D)   A permanent office shall be kept on site. Every visitor must register
with the office and records shall be kept of names and addresses of the owner
(s) of each recreational vehicle, along with the make, model, year and license
plate number of each vehicle or the vehicle with which it is towed, state,
territory or country issuing such license and the arrival and departure date of
each vehicle. This record must be available for inspection to all appropriate
agencies whose duty it is to acquire this information. Security shall be
provided by the owners while the park is open.
   (E)   Streets coming to the park must be able to accommodate first class
vehicles. All streets within the park are to be 24 feet in width with a 30-foot
right-of-way and must be concrete or paved. Adequate room must be allowed for
emergency vehicles. Entrance to the park shall be 45 feet wide to allow for
turning of large vehicles. All turn-arounds must be 45 feet in width to allow
for long vehicles.
   (F)   Access by bridge shall require the bridge to be built to NCDOT
standards and accommodate the traffic proposed for the park.
   (G)   A landscaping plan must be provided during the conditional permit
process. The plan shall be designed to perform the following function:
      (1)   Screen the RV park visually and audibly from adjacent properties as
completely as possible;
      (2)   Provide an attractive entrance and street frontage;
      (3)   Provide dust and erosion control;
      (4)   Provide a neat, attractive and aesthetically pleasing appearance;
and
      (5)   Grass and ornamental landscaping shall be provided throughout the
RV park.
   (H)   Concrete pads shall be provided for each lot at ten feet by 40 feet.
   (I)   All lots shall allow for two parking spaces. No parking is allowed
along the sides of streets. Overflow parking shall be provided elsewhere in the
park.
   (J)   Accessory uses permitted may include structures for office, restrooms,
picnic shelters, shower and laundry services and recreation facilities for
exclusive use of park patrons (i.e., pool, ball fields, clubhouse and the
like).
   (K)   Drainage, sedimentation and erosion control plans must be approved and
implemented by standards of the state’s Department of Environmental Quality.
   (L)   Electrical hook-ups shall be provided for each lot. No generators are
allowed for use.
   (M)   All water distribution and sewage disposal system plans must receive
approval from the appropriate state, county and/or town officials prior to
issuance of a certificate of compliance. Each rental space shall be equipped
with a sewer and electrical hookup as well as two water outlets, to provide
water connection to the recreational vehicle and a water hose for fire
protection.
      (1)   If not hooked to a town sewer system, then a public sewage system
shall be provided by way of a branch line and a riser pipe at least four inches
in diameter. The riser pipe shall be capped with a water-tight cap or plug when
not in use. Sanitary sewage systems shall be installed in compliance with State
Health Department standards. All plumbing in the RV park shall comply with
state and local plumbing laws.
      (2)   An accessible, adequate safe and potable supply of water under
pressure shall be provided in the RV park. The water supply system shall be
designed, constructed and maintained in compliance with the State Health
Department standards and if supplied by the town, shall meet the applicable
standards of the town.
   (N)   No recreational vehicle lots, structures or other facilities may be
located closer than 35 feet from any property line in a residential zone and in
no case within 200 feet of an existing structure not associated with park
operations. There must be 20 feet of separation between recreational vehicle
lots.
   (O)   Setbacks for the park will be 50 feet from the edge of a state
maintained road and/or 35 feet from the center of the road.
   (P)   Permanent habitation is not permitted. The maximum time a recreational
vehicle may be present in the recreational vehicle park is five consecutive
months each calendar year. Permanent plumbing or mechanical connections are
prohibited. Wheels and axels must remain on recreational vehicles at all times.
Recreational vehicles are not to be rented, owner occupancy only.
   (Q)   Accessory structures cannot be connected to any recreational vehicle.
Set-up of recreational vehicles shall be done according to manufacturer’s
instructions. Canvas awnings, which are normal camping equipment are allowed,
but must be removed when the recreational vehicle is removed. No other
structural additions shall be built onto or become a part of any recreational
vehicle. No storage sheds are allowed.
   (R)   (1)   Campfires are permitted within a fire ring and shall be
monitored at all times. Must be at least 25 feet away from any combustible fuel
storage source.
      (2)   All fires must be extinguished no later than 11:00 p.m.
   (S)   Location of a recreational vehicle park within a floodplain, not a
flood way, is allowed. An emergency evacuation plan must be filed with the
town’s Zoning Administrator and the town’s Police Department.
   (T)   Noise levels shall not exceed those similar to residential
neighborhoods in the town, and recreational vehicle parks must post signs
advising patrons to observe “quiet hours” between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. no drone are allowed.
   (U)   Pets are allowed as long as they are kept on a leash or in an
enclosure at all times. Patrons of the park must be able to keep their pets
under control for excessive barking.
   (V)   (1)   Dumpster sites must use animal proof measure to prevent the
attraction of animals into the park.
      (2)   A schedule of pick-ups must be provided to the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   Grills are to be burned off and cleaned after each use as a
deterrent for animals.
   (W)   Adequate fire protection plan shall be provided throughout the
recreational vehicle park. Approval of a fire protection plan by the town’s
Fire Department shall be provided prior to approval.
   (X)   (1)   At least 10% of the total acreage shall be kept as open space
for recreational activities.
      (2)   Open space shall not include any area designated as a roadway,
rental lot, storage area, swimming pool, yard area surrounding the manager’s
residence or any area required for setbacks as set forth in §
152.229 of this chapter.
   (Y)   Tents are allowed in a separate section and shall follow the
guidelines of §
152.207 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 926;
Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 152.230 LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY.
   Livestock and poultry are allowed as a special use in accordance with the
following regulations.
   (A)   Keeping of livestock or poultry in zoning districts as referenced in §
152.028 of this chapter, shall be applicable only to property within the
corporate limits of the town. The keeping of livestock and poultry in the
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) shall not be governed by this section as
per G.S. § 160D-9-3(c).
   (B)   Any existing situations of livestock or poultry being kept within the
corporate limits of the town prior to the effective date of January 1, 2021 of
this section shall be allowed to continue as a non-conforming use as provided
in §
152.335 of this chapter. Should any pre-existing livestock or poultry situation
cease by removal of a related structure or fence for more than six months, such
use shall no longer be allowed.
   (C)   No more than one animal shall be kept, maintained and/or stabled per
5,445 square feet (one-eighth acre). For the purpose of this section, one
animal shall mean a goat, sheep, donkey, mule, cow, horse, bison, llama,
alpaca, ostrich, or similar animals weighing 200 pounds or more. Five chickens
or similar foul defined as poultry shall count as one animal unit. The keeping
of hogs, excluding a potbellied pig as a pet, is not permitted.
   (D)   All livestock or poultry shall be fenced so that they are no closer
than 150 feet from an adjacent dwelling unit. This shall not apply to a
residence constructed after the establishment of such livestock or poultry
containment area. However, the containment area may not encroach further
towards the newly established residence.
   (E)   No livestock shall be kept, maintained, or stabled on any lot of less
than two acres and must be able to maintain a healthy water source for the
animals.
   (F)   Structures or enclosures provided to adequately accommodate and
maintain all livestock and/or poultry must be approved by the Zoning
Administrator and the County Building Inspector for the storage of farm
equipment or supplies, maintenance equipment and supplies, and similar items
associated with agricultural uses and permitted subject to the issuance of a
zoning permit.
   (G)   All stables, pasture areas, and manure and feed storage areas shall be
kept in a neat and healthy condition so as not to constitute a nuisance for
adjoining property owners.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 927)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.231 TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Placement and use of temporary portable storage container(s) are subject to
the following conditions and limitations:
   (A)   Use. Temporary portable storage containers:
      (1)   Shall only be used for storage of goods and materials.
      (2)   Storage of hazardous, toxic, or explosive substances, or any other
substance requiring a 704 placard is prohibited.
      (3)   Can be allowed as storage in any zoning district if proper siding
and a roof are used.
      (4)   Commercial, wholesale or retail sales, flea markets, peddling,
garage sales or other similar types of activities is prohibited.
      (5)   Habitation of storage units by humans or animals is prohibited.
   (B)   Number allowed. Any property is limited to one temporary portable
container at any given time.
   (C)   Duration of use.
      (1)   Shipping containers can be allowed in the C-2 zoning district as
long as they are buffered from public view, no time limit.
      (2)   Shipping containers may be used for material and equipment storage
upon active construction sites so long as they are under an active building and
zoning permit.
      (3)   Smaller containers, such as “PODS,” may be utilized in the R-1, R-
1U, and R-2 districts for up to three months within a calendar year, unless
they are under an active building and zoning permit at which time as this
period may be extended for up to an additional six months.
      (4)   Shipping containers may be used for material and equipment storage
upon active construction sites so long as they are under an active building and
zoning permit.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.240 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter that all questions arising in connection
with the enforcement or the interpretation of this chapter shall be first
presented to the Administrative Officer and that such question shall be
presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from the Administrative
Officer, and that from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall
be taken to the courts as provided by law. It is further the intent of this
subchapter that the duties of the Town Council in connection with this chapter
shall not include hearing and passing on disputed questions which might arise
in connection with the enforcement or interpretation of this chapter, but the
procedures for determining such questions shall be as stated in this chapter,
and the duties of the Town Council in connection with this chapter shall be
only the duty of holding a public hearing and voting upon any proposed
amendment or repeal of this chapter as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1000)
§ 152.241 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized and it shall be his or her
duty to enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1001)
§ 152.242 ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Zoning permit required in any zoning district.
      (1)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, extended,
enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any excavation or filling of any
lot for the construction of any building be commenced until the Zoning
Administrator has issued a zoning permit for such work. Application for a
zoning permit shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be made
prior to application for a building permit under the state’s Building Code;
such application shall include the following information:
         (a)   A site sketch, drawn to a scale of at least one inch to 40 feet,
of the parcel of property showing its actual dimensions and indicating the
size, location and distance from property lines of the proposed building any
other existing building(s), and any other improvements proposed to be
accomplished, including, but not limited to, driveways, sidewalks, landscaping
and parking areas;
         (b)   A drawing of the proposed building drawn to scale and in
sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work
to be done, and consisting at minimum of a floor plan and elevations of the
building (except, however, that, the Zoning Administrator may approve minor
construction work without compliance with this requirement);
         (c)   The use to which the completed project shall be devoted;
         (d)   Payment of all system access, impact fees and any additional
costs associated with the physical connection to town utilities; and
         (e)   Any other information the Zoning Administrator may deem
reasonably necessary to evaluate the compliance of the applicant’s proposal
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall review each element of the
application and:
            1.   Determine if review by the Architectural Review Committee is
required;
            2.   Review by the Preserve America Committee shall be required for
properties in the Historical District Overlay; or
            3.   In the event that it is not, determine if he is satisfied that
the work described therein complies with this chapter, he or she shall issue a
zoning permit; said permit shall be issued prior to application for a building
permit under the state’s Building Code.
         (b)   Review by the Architectural Review Committee is required for all
new commercial buildings, additions to existing commercial buildings and the
remodeling of the exterior of existing commercial buildings; the Architectural
Review Committee shall review the project for compliance with §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter, as well as other pertinent sections. In such cases, a
zoning permit shall not be issued by the Zoning Administrator until such
approval is issued by the Architectural Review Committee and consideration of
the Preserve America Committee if applicable. After a zoning permit has been
issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of the application, plans or
permit shall be made until specific written approval has been obtained from the
Zoning Administrator. If the Zoning Administrator finds the application to be
deficient or the information therein to be contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, he or she shall reject the application and deny the applicant’s
request for a zoning permit in writing, setting forth the reasons for the
rejection and denial.
      (3)   An applicant must sign an acknowledgment of acceptance of a zoning
permit within 60 days from the date of any order or decision issuing the
permit, or the permit shall expire. This time period is stayed for the duration
of any litigation regarding such permit, or until all legal appeals regarding
such permit have been exhausted. The permit shall expire two years after the
date of acceptance if the work authorized has not been commenced. If after
commencement of work, that work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the
permit shall expire unless otherwise vested by law. Upon expiration, the permit
shall become void, and no work may be performed until a new permit has been
secured.
   (B)   Posting of the zoning permit. A zoning permit provided by the town
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the building site. The zoning permit
shall remain posted throughout construction and shall not be removed until a
certificate of compliance has been issued.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1002;
Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 152.243 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A certificate of compliance shall be secured from the Zoning
Administrator before the making of a permanent connection to water service or
sewer service.
   (B)   If any repairs, improvements or alterations have been performed upon
any premises for which a zoning permit has been issued, a certificate of
compliance shall be secured from the Zoning Administrator within 30 calendar
days from the completion thereof.
   (C)   The certificate of compliance shall certify that the Zoning
Administrator has inspected the completed improvements and that the
improvements, together with the proposed use thereof, are in conformity with
the zoning permit and the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No new building or part thereof may be occupied, and no addition or
enlargement of any existing building may be occupied, and no existing building
that has been altered or moved may be occupied until the certificate of
compliance has been issued. Failure to obtain a certificate of compliance in
accordance with this chapter shall be a violation and punishable under §
152.999 of this chapter.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator may, in his or her discretion, issue a
temporary certificate of compliance permitting occupancy of specified portions
of an uncompleted building or project for a limited time, not to exceed six
months, if the Zoning Administrator finds that the portion of the building or
project may safely be occupied prior to the final completion of the entire
building or project. The Zoning Administrator may renew, at his or her
discretion, the temporary certificate of compliance for additional specified
periods, each successive period not to exceed six months.
   (F)   Should a request for a certificate of compliance be made to the Zoning
Administrator prior to site improvements (i.e., landscaping, sidewalks,
parking) being completed, it shall be at the discretion of the Administrator to
issue the certificate if the improvements do not impact the functionality or
occupancy of the building. However, the certificate shall not be granted unless
a financial security in the form of a cashier’s check, letter of credit or
performance bond shall be issued to the town by a financial institution in an
amount 125% times the estimated cost of completion of the improvements.
Estimates shall be certified by a state-registered engineer or state-licensed
general contractor. If the improvements have not been completed within six
months of the issuance of the certificate of compliance, the town may use the
financial security to complete the improvements.
   (G)   Certificates of compliance shall be maintained in the records of the
town.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1003)
§ 152.244 DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   If a certificate of compliance is denied, the applicant may appeal the
decision of the Zoning Administrator in accordance with §
152.270 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1004)
§ 152.245 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS,
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Zoning permits or certificates of compliance issued on the basis of
plans and applications approved by the Administrative Officer authorize only
the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement
or construction differing with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter and punishable as provided by §
152.999 of this chapter.
   (B)   A zoning permit provided by the town shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the building site. The zoning permit shall remain posted throughout
construction and shall not be removed until a certificate of compliance is
issued.
(Ord. passed 5-12-1997; Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 1006)
§ 152.246 MAINTENANCE OF DEDICATED AREAS UNTIL ACCEPTANCE BY TOWN OR POA.
   (A)   All facilities and improvements with respect to which the owner and/or
development makes an offer of dedication for use, whether private or public,
shall be maintained by the owner until such offer of dedication is accepted by
the appropriate legal entity or public authority.
   (B)   (1)   The Council may relieve the owner of the requirement of this
section if it determines that a property owners association or other similar
legal entity has been established for the development and a review of the
covenants, restrictions and conditions have been made and are accepted by the
Town Council.
      (2)   Town Council may approve the association once it determines that
the association has assumed and/or is capable of performing the obligations set
out in the covenants, restrictions and conditions as proposed by the
development.
   (C)   (1)   POAs which do not abide by their covenants, restrictions or
conditions will first receive a letter of warning from the town.
      (2)   Further violations shall be subject to §
152.999 of this chapter.
   (D)   Areas of conservation easement must be dedicated to a legitimate
conservation organization or the town for management upon approval by the Board
of Adjustment and the Town Council. POAs will not be allowed to manage their
own area(s) of conservation easement.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 1007)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 152.260 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. Said Board shall consist of
five regular members; three regular members of the Board shall be citizens of
the town and shall be appointed by the Town Council, and two regular members
shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners and shall be a citizen
of the extraterritorial area outside the town limits. As the terms of all
members expire, new appointments for three years shall be made. The Town
Council shall also appoint two alternate members for the municipalities’
regular members, and the Board of Commissioners shall appoint one alternate
member for the extraterritorial members. The alternate members of the Board
shall be required to attend all meetings and hearings and shall be called upon
to participate in the hearing of a case where a regular member is absent or
excused because of financial or other interest. At any meeting or hearing in
which they are called upon to participate, alternate members shall have the
same powers and duties as regular members.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1100)
§ 152.261 VACANCIES.
   The Town Council shall appoint members to fill vacancies of the town’s
members and the County Commissioners shall appoint members to fill vacancies of
the extraterritorial area’s members.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1101)
§ 152.262 RIGHTS OF ALL BOARD MEMBERS.
   All Board of Adjustment members, including extraterritorial members, shall
have equal rights, privileges and duties both within the town and
extraterritorial area.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1102)
§ 152.263 RULES OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Members of the Board may be removed for cause, including violation of
the rules stated below.
   (B)   All members should attend Board of Adjustment meetings regularly. If a
member misses more than three consecutive meetings, he or she may be replaced
at the recommendation of the Board of Adjustment, and the discretion of the
Town Council.
   (C)   No Board member shall take part in the hearing, consideration and
determination of any case in which he or she is personally or financially
interested. PERSONALLY INTERESTED is defined to mean that a Board member’s
family either owns, has a financial interest in or has property abutting
property being considered by the Board.
   (D)   No Board member shall vote on any matter deciding an application for
appeal unless he or she shall have attended the public hearing on that
application or appeal.
   (E)   No Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto prior
to the public hearing on that case; provided, however, that, members may
receive and/or seek information pertaining to the case from any other member of
the Board, its Secretary or Clerk prior to the hearing.
   (F)   Members of the Board will not express individual opinions on the
proper judgment of any case with any parties thereto prior to its determination
of that case. Violation of this rule shall be cause for dismissal from the
Board.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1103)
§ 152.264 BOARD MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board may be called at any time by the Chairperson. At least
48 hours’ written notice of the time and the place of meetings shall be given
by the Secretary or by the Chairperson to each member of the Board. All Board
meetings are to be held in accordance with G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C, commonly
referred to as the Open Meeting Law.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1104)
§ 152.265 CANCELLATION OF MEETINGS.
   Whenever there are no appeals, applications for conditional uses or
variances, or other business for the Board, or whenever so many regular and
alternate members notify the Secretary of inability to attend that a quorum
will not be available, the Chairperson may dispense with a meeting by giving
written or oral notice to all members not less than 12 hours prior to the time
set for the meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1105)
§ 152.266 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of three members of the Board, but the Board shall
not pass upon any question relating to an appeal from a decision, order,
requirement or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for
a variance or conditional use permit when there are less than four members
present.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1106)
§ 152.267 VOTING.
   All members shall vote on any issue unless they have disqualified themselves
prior to the meeting or hearing for one or more of the reasons listed in §
152.263 of this chapter. The required vote to decide appeals and applications
shall be as provided in §
152.270(D)(4) of this chapter, and shall not be reduced by disqualification. In
all other matters, the vote of a majority of the members present and voting
shall decide issues before the Board.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1107)
§ 152.268 CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (B)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of minutes of previous meetings;
      (3)   Hearing of cases;
      (4)   Reports of committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business;
      (6)   New business; and
      (7)   Consideration and determination of cases heard.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1108)
§ 152.269 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter;
   (B)   Conditional uses. To hear and decide only such conditional uses as the
Board of Adjustments is specifically authorized to pass on under the terms of
this chapter. To decide such questions as are involved in determining whether a
conditional use should be granted. To grant conditional uses with such
conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter, or to deny
conditional uses when not in harmony with the intent of this chapter. A
conditional use may be granted by the Board of Adjustment only after making the
following findings:
      (1)   That the Board of Adjustment is empowered under a specific section
of this chapter to grant the conditional use and that the granting of the
conditional use will not adversely affect the public interest;
      (2)   Before any conditional use shall be issued, the Board shall make
written findings certifying compliance with all specific rules governing the
individual conditional use and that satisfactory provisions and arrangements
have been made concerning the following wherever applicable:
         (a)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures, with
particular reference to automobile and pedestrian safety, convenience, traffic
flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required with
particular attention to the items in division (B)(2)(a) above and to the
economic, noise, glare or odor effects of the conditional use on adjoining
properties and generally in the district;
         (c)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items
in divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)(b) above;
         (d)   Utilities, with reference to location, availability,
compatibility and compliance with the town’s Water and Sewer Ordinance. All
impact charges must be paid prior to the issuance of a conditional use permit;
         (e)   Screening and buffering, with reference to type, dimensions and
character;
         (f)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting, with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
         (g)   Required yards and other open space; and
         (h)   General compatibility with adjacent property and other property
in the district.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall request from the town’s Planning
Board a review and recommendations of the conditional use relative to the
following considerations:
         (a)   Relation of the conditional use to applicable elements of the
planning program; and
         (b)   Relation of the conditional use to applicable elements of the
architectural review guidelines.
   (C)   Variances. When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of this chapter, the town’s Board of Adjustments shall vary
any of the provisions of this chapter upon a showing of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be a basis for
granting a variance;
      (3)   The hardship did not result from action taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship;
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose and
intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved; and
      (5)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by a variance.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance; provided that, the
conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
   (D)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment. Any person or persons jointly or
severally aggrieved
by any decision of the Board, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department,
board or bureau of the town may, within 30 days after the filing of the
decision in the office of the Board, but not thereafter, present to a court of
competent jurisdiction a petition duly verified, setting forth that such
decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the ground of illegality,
whereupon such decision of said Board shall be subject to review by certiorari
as provided by law.
   (E)   Fees for variances, appeals and conditional uses. A fee shall be paid
according to § 19 of the Fee Schedule for each application for a variance,
appeal or conditional use to cover the necessary administrative and advertising
costs.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-14-2013; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 1109)
§ 152.270 APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Types of appeals. The Board shall hear and decide all appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator. It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon
which it is required to pass by this chapter. In deciding appeals, it may hear
both those based upon an allegedly improper or erroneous interpretation of this
chapter and those based upon alleged hardship resulting from strict
interpretation of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure for filing appeals. No appeal shall be heard by the Board
unless notice thereof is filed within 30 days after the interested party or
parties receive notice of the order, requirement, decision or determination by
the Zoning Administrator. The applicant must file his or her application for a
hearing with the Zoning Administrator, who shall act as clerk for the Board in
receiving this notice. All applications shall be made upon the form specified
by the town for that purpose, and all information required thereon shall be
complete before an appeal shall be considered as having been filed.
   (C)   Hearings.
      (1)   Time. After receipt of notice of appeal, the Board Chairperson
shall schedule the time for a hearing, which shall be at a regular or special
meeting within 36 days from the filing of such notice of appeal.
      (2)   Notice. The Board shall give public notice of the hearing in a
newspaper published in the county by advertisement published at least five days
prior to the date of the hearing. The Board shall mail notices of the hearing
to the parties to the action appealed from, and to such other persons as the
Zoning Administrator shall direct, at least five days prior to the hearing.
Such notice shall state the location of the building or lot, the general nature
of the question involved in the appeal and the time and place of the hearing.
      (3)   Conduct of hearing.
         (a)   Any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney at the
hearing. The order of business for hearing shall be as follows:
            1.   The Chairperson, or such person as he or she shall direct,
shall give a preliminary statement of the case;
            2.   The applicant shall present the argument in support of his or
her application;
            3.   Persons opposed to granting the application shall present the
argument against the application;
            4.   Both sides will be permitted to present rebuttals to opposing
testimony; and
            5.   The Chairperson shall summarize the evidence which has been
presented, giving the parties opportunity to make objections or corrections.
         (b)   Witnesses may be called and factual evidence may be submitted,
but the Board shall not be limited to consideration of such evidence as would
be admissible in a court of law. The Board may view the premises before
arriving at a decision. All witnesses before the Board shall be placed under
oath and the opposing party may cross-examine them.
      (4)   Re-hearings. An application for a rehearing may be made in the same
manner as provided for an original hearing. Evidence in support of the
application shall initially be limited to that which is necessary to enable the
Board to determine whether there has been a substantial change in the facts,
evidence or conditions in the case. The application for rehearing shall be
denied by the Board if from the record it finds that there has been no
substantial change in facts, evidence or conditions. If the Board finds that
there has been a change, it shall thereupon treat the request in the same
manner as any other application.
   (D)   Decisions.
      (1)   Time. Decisions by the Board shall be made not more than 30 days
from the time of hearing.
      (2)   Form. Written notice of the decision in a case shall be given to
the applicant by the Secretary as soon as practicable after the case is decided
by certified or registered mail. Also, written notice shall be given to owners
of the subject property (if not the applicant) and to other persons who have
made a written request for such notice. The final decision of the Board shall
be shown in the record of the case as entered in the minutes of the Board and
signed by the Secretary and the Chairperson upon approval of the minutes by the
Board. Such record shall show the reasons for the determination, with a summary
of the evidence introduced and the findings of fact made by the Board. Where a
variance is granted, the record shall state in detail any exceptional
difficulty or unnecessary hardship upon which the appeal was based and which
the Board finds to exist. The decision may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly
or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from.
Where conditional use is granted, the record shall state in detail any facts
supporting findings required to be made prior to the issuance of such permit.
The record shall state in detail what, if any, conditions and safeguards are
imposed by the Board in connection with the granting of a variance or a
conditional use.
      (3)   Expiration of permits. Unless otherwise provided by law, any order
or decision of the Board granting conditional use or variance shall expire if
the applicant does not sign acknowledging acceptance of the permit within 60
days of such order or decision. The issuance of such permits is also subject to
the time limitations set forth in §
152.242 of this chapter.
      (4)   Voting at hearings. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board
shall be necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be
required to decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal
made in the nature of certiorari. For purposes of the section, vacant positions
on the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter shall not be considered members of the Board for calculation of the
requisite majority if there no qualified alternates available to take the place
of such members.
      (5)   Public record of decisions. The decisions of the Board, as filed in
its minutes, shall be a public record, available for inspection at all
reasonable times.
   (E)   Intervention. Any individual or organization who wishes to intervene
as a party to any matter before the Board of Adjustment shall complete an
application to intervene upon a form which may be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator. Such application shall state the proposed intervener’s interest
relating to the property or hearing, any practical impairment of the protection
of the interest if not allowed to intervene as a party, and whether there is
inadequate representation of that interest by existing parties. Such
application shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator at least 24 hours
prior to the scheduled time for the hearing of the matter before the Board. The
Board may waive the deadline for the filing of this application upon good cause
being shown for the failure to timely file to intervene. Upon a hearing on the
motion to intervene, the Board of Adjustments shall determine whether
intervention is appropriate.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-14-2013; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 1110; Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
PRESERVE AMERICA COMMISSION
§ 152.285 PROCEEDINGS OF THE PRESERVE AMERICA COMMISSION.
   (A)   A Preserve America Committee is hereby established.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall serve as the Preserve America Committee.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1131)
§ 152.286 HISTORICAL DISTRICT OVERLAY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   The members of the Preserve America Committee shall also serve in the
capacity of the Architectural Review Committee for the Historical District
Overlay and shall review all plans and advise property owners concerning the
treatment of the historical and visual characteristics of their properties,
such as color schemes, gardens and landscape features and minor decorative
elements before making a recommendation in writing to the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1131)
§ 152.287 DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the following responsibilities and advisory
functions that shall be in addition to any other powers, responsibilities and
functions specified in this chapter:
   (A)   Act as a body or committee to give advice to property owners
concerning treatment of the historical and visual characteristics of their
properties, such as color schemes, gardens and landscape features and minor
decorative elements;
   (B)   Propose to Town Council changes to this chapter or any other
ordinance, and propose new ordinances or laws relating to historical properties
or relating to a total program for the protection and/or development of the
historic resources of the town and its environment;
   (C)   Communicate with other town boards, commissions or with agencies of
the town or other governmental units to offer or request assistance, aid,
guidance or advice concerning matters under its purview or of mutual interest;
   (D)   Report violations of this chapter with respect to historic properties
to the Zoning Administrator;
   (E)   Accept funds granted to the Commission for preservation purposes from
private individuals and organizations;
   (F)   Organize itself and conduct its business;
   (G)   Investigate and instigate the designation of properties as “historic”;
and
   (H)   Review applications for construction, renovations, additions or
demolitions before submittal to the Planning Board and/or the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5- -2014; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 1132)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 152.300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   A Planning Board is hereby established. Said board shall consist of
nine members; five of which shall be appointed by the Town Council and four
members representing the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction which shall be
appointed by the County Commissioners for terms of four years. Any vacancy in
the membership shall be filled for the un-expired term in the same manner as
the initial appointment. Members may be reappointed and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1150)
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice
Chairperson from its members who shall serve for one year or until reelected or
until their successors are elected.
      (2)   The Board shall appoint a Secretary, who may be a municipal
officer, an employee of the town or a member of the Planning Board.
      (3)   The Board shall adopt rules and bylaws in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and of G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 2. Meetings of the Board
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, and at such other times as the
Board may determine.
      (4)   The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Vice Chairperson may
administer oaths. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1151)
§ 152.301 ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The members of the Planning Board shall also serve, in the capacity of
the Architectural Review Committee and shall review development plans for
compliance with §§
152.085 through
152.090 of this chapter and other relevant sections of this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have 45 days after the first consideration of
the application within which to:
      (1)   Approve;
      (2)   Deny; or
      (3)   Approve with conditions, the application.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1152)
§ 152.302 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall provide an advisory function to assist in
making decisions pertaining to amendments to a comprehensive plan and this
chapter, and applications for conditional use permit approval.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To exercise any of the powers and/or duties assigned pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-361 including, but not limited to, the preparation of a
comprehensive plan;
      (2)   To prepare amendments to the plan and its elements and to submit
the amendments to the Council;
      (3)   To initiate, hear, review and make recommendations to the Council
on applications for amendments to the text of this chapter;
      (4)   To initiate, hear, review and make recommendations to the Council
on applications for amendments to the Official Zoning Map;
      (5)   To hear, review and make recommendations on all applications for
major subdivision approval in accordance with the rules and regulations
established in
Ch. 151 of this chapter;
      (6)    To review applications for conditional use permits to provide
input to the applicant. The authority of the Board in such cases is as an
advisory body.
      (7)   To adopt bylaws, policies, procedures and regulations for the
conduct of its meetings, the consideration of applications for development
approval, and for any other purposes deemed necessary for the functioning of
the Board. All bylaws, policies, procedures and regulations shall be consistent
with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1153)
§ 152.303 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to grant reasonable
accommodations under the Federal Fair Housing Act, Americans with Disabilities
Act and Rehabilitation Act under the circumstances set forth in this section.
   (B)   An application for a reasonable accommodation may be filed only by the
owner of the land affected by the reasonable accommodation; an agent, lessee or
contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner of file such
application; or any unit of government that is not the owner of the lot but
proposes to acquire the lot by purchase, gift or condemnation.
   (C)   (1)   An application for a reasonable accommodation shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator and contain:
         (a)   The applicant’s contact information (name, mailing address,
telephone number, fax number and email address);
         (b)   The contact information for the owner(s) of the property (if
different from the applicant);
         (c)   The address of the property at which the reasonable
accommodation is requested;
         (d)   A description of the reasonable accommodation requested;
         (e)   A statement explaining how and why the request meets the
standards for a reasonable accommodation (see division (C)(1)(f) below); and
         (f)   The notarized signature of the applicant and property owner(s)
(if different from the applicant).
      (2)   No filing fee shall be required for the application.
   (D)   The Board shall hold a quasi-judicial hearing on the proposed
reasonable accommodation and shall decide the request upon a majority vote of
the members.
   (E)   The quasi-judicial hearing shall be noticed in accordance with the
requirements set forth in state law for the adequate notice of variances from
municipal government land use ordinances.
   (F)   The Board shall grant a reasonable accommodation to any provision of
the land use ordinance if the Board finds that the applicant carried its burden
of proof, by the greater weight of the evidence, that the proposed reasonable
accommodation is both reasonable and necessary, in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   “Reasonable”: an accommodation will be determined to be reasonable
if it would not undermine the legitimate purposes and effects of existing
zoning regulations, and if it will not impose significant financial and
administrative burdens upon the municipality and/or constitute a substantial or
fundamental alteration of the municipality’s land use ordinance provisions; and
      (2)   “Necessary”: an accommodation will be determined to be necessary if
it would provide direct or meaningful therapeutic amelioration of the effects
of the particular disability or handicap and would afford disabled or
handicapped persons equal opportunity to enjoy and use housing in residential
districts in the municipality.
   (G)   After the Board approved a reasonable accommodation, the applicant
shall follow all applicable land use ordinance procedures and regulations for
the approval of any permits, certificates or other approvals required in order
to proceed with development or use of the property. All orders, decisions,
determinations and interpretations made by administrative officers under those
procedures shall be consistent with the reasonable accommodations granted by
the Board.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 2-11-2019; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 1154)
AMENDMENTS
§ 152.315 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter, including zoning map, may be amended by the Town Council in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1200)
§ 152.316 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Proposed changes or amendments may be initiated by the Town Council, the
Planning Board, the Board of Adjustment, the Preserve America Committee or one
or more owners of property within the area proposed to be changed or affected.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1201)
§ 152.317 APPLICATION.
   Before any action on a proposed change or amendment, an application shall be
submitted to the office of the Zoning Administrator at least ten days prior to
the Planning Board’s meeting at which the application is to be considered. The
application shall contain the name(s) and address (es) of the owner(s) of the
property in question, the location of the property and a description and/or
statement of the present and proposed zoning regulations or district as shown
on the application forms supplied by the town. All applications requesting a
change in the zoning map shall include a description of the property in
question. The Preserve America Committee, the Planning Board and the Town
Council will not consider an application for property denied within the
preceding 12 months by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1202)
§ 152.318 PLANNING BOARD ACTION.
   Before taking any action on a proposed amendment to the ordinance, the Town
Council shall consider the Planning Board’s recommendations on each proposed
amendment. The Planning Board shall have 45 days after the first consideration
of the application within which to submit its recommendations to Town Council.
Failure of the Planning Board to submit recommendations within the 45-day
period shall constitute a favorable recommendation.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1203)
§ 152.319 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before enacting any amendment to this chapter, the Town Council shall hold a
public hearing. A notice of such public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county once a week for two successive
weeks. The first publication shall not appear less than ten days prior to the
date fixed for the public hearing. The notice shall include the time, place,
and date of the hearing, and include a description of the property or the
nature of the change or amendment to the ordinance and/or map.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1204)
§ 152.320 PROTESTS.
   (A)   No protest against a change, amendment or revision of the ordinance,
shall be valid or effective unless it be in the form of a written petition
actually bearing the signatures of the owners of 20% or more of either the area
of lots included in such proposed change, or those immediately adjacent
thereto, either in the rear or either side thereof, extending 100 feet
therefrom, or those directly opposite thereto extending 100 feet from the
street frontage of such opposite lots.
   (B)   The protest petition shall be on the form prescribed and furnished by
the town.
   (C)   The protest petition shall be received by the Town Clerk at least two
normal work days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) before the
date established for a public hearing on the proposed change, amendment or
revision. Upon certification by the Town Clerk to the Town Council of the
validity of the protest petition, no change, amendment or revision shall become
effective, except by a favorable vote of three-fourths of all members of the
Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1205)
§ 152.321 DECISION.
   The Town Council shall make a decision on the proposed amendment within 60
days after the public hearing.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1206)
§ 152.322 FEES FOR AMENDMENTS.
   See § 19 of the town’s Fee Schedule for fees to amend the town’s zoning map
and this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1207)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 152.335 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Within the districts established by this chapter, or amendment thereto,
there exist lots, structures or uses of land and structures which were lawful
before this chapter was adopted or amended, but which are prohibited in the
future under the terms of this chapter or amendment. It is the intent of this
subchapter to permit the continuance of certain of these non-conforming uses
until they are removed by economic forces or otherwise, and to require
discontinuance within a reasonable time of certain other non-conforming uses.
It is the intent of this chapter to discourage the survival of non-conforming
uses and to prohibit their enlargement, expansion or extension.
   (A)   Continuance. Non-conforming uses existing at the time of the enactment
of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, may be continued on the same land
area; provided, however, that, the land area occupied by a non-conforming use
may not be increased. Non-conforming uses shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another non-conforming use;
      (2)   Enlarged or extended, except in conformity with this chapter; and
      (3)   Reestablished after discontinuance for 120 days; except in those
cases where a non- conforming building or structure is damaged by fire,
explosion, flood, riot or act of God and, in such case, the building or
structure may be reconstructed and used as before any such calamity, but not
enlarged or extended; provided, such reconstruction takes place within one year
of the calamity.
   (B)   Cessation of use. All non-conforming uses of land or non-conforming
uses involving minor structures such as golf driving ranges, auto sales yards,
home occupations involving retail sales and/or display of goods, junk yards or
any uses similar to those enumerated, shall be discontinued within two years
from the date of adoption of the ordinance within the corporate limits and
within two years in the extraterritorial area upon adoption of extraterritorial
jurisdiction. All non-conforming uses involving mobile homes used for non-
residential purposes inside the corporate limits shall be discontinued no later
than 18 months after adoption of such extraterritorial jurisdiction by the
town.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1300)
§ 152.336 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Where the owner of a lot of official record in any district at the time of
the adoption of this chapter, or his or her successor in title thereto, does
not own sufficient contiguous land to enable him or her to conform to the
minimum lot size requirements of this chapter, such lot may be used as a
building site; provided that:
   (A)   Where the lot area and/or any other dimensional requirement is not
more than 20% below the minimum specified in this chapter and other dimensional
requirements are otherwise complied with, the Zoning Administrator is
authorized to issue a zoning permit; and
   (B)   Where the lot area and/or any other dimensional requirement is more
that 20% below the minimum specified in this chapter or other dimensional
requirements cannot be met, the Board of Adjustment is authorized to approve as
a variance such dimensions as shall conform as closely as possible to the
required dimensions.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 1301)
SHORT-TERM RENTAL
§ 152.350 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate short-term rentals
(STR’s) with the following goals recommended as key to preserving the health,
safety, and general welfare of town citizens, protection of neighborhoods and
property values:
      (1)   To clearly define short-term rentals.
      (2)   To clearly identify where short-term rentals are permitted.
      (3)   To establish basic safety regulations for visitors renting short-
term properties.
      (4)   To protect neighborhoods from unwanted short-term rentals and the
problems that arise as a result (parties, noise, parking, dogs, trash, etc.).
      (5)   To have a local contact to quickly and effectively address issues
that may arise during a rental stay.
      (6)   To allow homeowners the opportunity to legally rent their dwelling
units where permitted.
      (7)   To regulate short-term rentals consistent with authority given by
the North Carolina General Statutes.
      (8)   The provisions of the section shall apply to the whole-house short-
term rentals. This section does not apply to other types of transient lodging,
such as hotels, motels, homestays, or bed and breakfast establishments.
   (B)   Therefore, the Town of Banner Elk hereby adopts the following
regulations to govern short-term rentals (STR's) within the corporate limits of
the Town of Banner Elk.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2020)
§ 152.351 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE COMPLIANCE VERIFICATION FORM. A document to be executed by a short-term
rental owner to certify that the property complies with applicable zoning,
building, health, and life safety code provisions.
   DESIGNATED RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The local contact person responsible for
responding to complaints or issues stemming from the use of the dwelling unit
as a short-term rental.
   GUEST. The person(s) renting a residential dwelling unit for compensation
for fewer than 30 consecutive days.
   HOMESTAY. The rental, for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days, of a
room or rooms within a private residence for compensation while the permanent
resident resides on-site during the duration of the rental period.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. An online platform that allows property owners to
advertise a dwelling unit as a short-term rental and facilitates the booking
transaction for accommodations between a short-term rental owner and a short-
term rental guest, including, but not limited to, reservations and/or
collection of payment for such accommodations on behalf of the short-term
rental owner.
   INCIDENTAL VACATION RENTAL. The listing of a rental of a residential
dwelling unit for fewer than 14 days per calendar year. If a dwelling unit is
made available for short-term rental for more than 14 days per calendar year,
the owner is responsible for obtaining a short-term rental permit even if the
property ends up being rented for fewer than 14 days.
   NON-OWNER OCCUPIED. Owner is absent from the property and the entire
property has been leased to the occupant for a specified period of time.
   OCCUPANCY TAX. A tax collected by the Town of Banner Elk for properties who
rent short-term for 90 consecutive days or less to each renter. The occupancy
rate for the town is 6%. An occupancy tax form is required to be filed with the
Tax Collector on the 20th of the following month of the end of each month's
rental period along with payment details.
   OPERATOR. The owner or any other natural person, company, or rental agency
who advertises, the property for rent and/or who otherwise facilitates the use
of the property as a short-term rental.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the short-term rental property as recorded in
the Avery County Land Records Office. The owner may be a natural person, or any
form of business entity recognized by the State of North Carolina. If the owner
is a form of business entity, the business entity shall maintain current
registration with the North Carolina Secretary of State.
   OWNER OCCUPIED. Owner remains on site while a portion of the property is
being rented to another unrelated occupant and continues to occupy a portion of
the property for their personal residential use.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL ZONING PERMIT ("STR" PERMIT). The authorization required
to use the property as a whole-house short-term rental upon registration. The
short-term rental zoning permit shall include a registration number. No person
shall rent, lease, or otherwise exchange for compensation any portion of a
dwelling unit intended for use as a short-term rental without first registering
the property and securing a short-term rental zoning permit.
   VRBO. Vacation Rental by Owner.
   WHOLE HOUSE SHORT-TERM RENTAL ("STR" OR "SHORT-TERM RENTAL"). The rental
lease of an attached or detached residential dwelling unit to guests for a
duration not to exceed 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2020)
§ 152.352 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Terms of STR permit.
      (1)   Short-term rentals are hereby recognized as an appropriate land
use. STR's are a permitted use within the following zoning districts: R-1, R-2,
R-1U, C-1, C-1P, C-2, M-E, M-U. STR's are prohibited in all other districts.
      (2)   An STR permit shall be assigned to each residential dwelling unit
used as a short-term rental. STR permits shall be valid for a period of one
year.
      (3)   On or after June 8, 2020, it shall be a violation of the Town
Zoning Ordinance to operate a short-term rental without having secured a valid
STR permit in compliance with these regulations.
      (4)   Applications for STR permits may be submitted with supporting
documentation and fees in person to the Zoning Administrator or may be
delivered via U.S. Mail.
      (5)   An STR permit shall be obtained for each dwelling unit that is to
be rented for a period of less than 90 consecutive days to a tenant, unless the
property is rented for less than 14 days in a calendar year.
      (6)   For purposes of this subchapter, authorized applicants are referred
to as “owners” and are those persons authorized in the Zoning Ordinance to
submit applications for zoning, special use, conditional use, or sign permits.
      (7)   In the event of a sale or other transfer of any residential
dwelling unit holding a valid STR permit, the permit shall automatically
expire.
      (8)   No permit is required for incidental vacation rentals.
   (B)   Application process.
      (1)   Application. In order to obtain an STR permit, the property owner
shall submit an application along with the required supporting documentation
and non-refundable application fee. The application shall consist of the
following information:
         (a)   Name and contact information of the property owner, including
telephone number, mailing address, and e-mail address. If the owner is a
corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or other group
acting as a unit, the owner shall provide the name of the entity set forth
exactly as it is shown in its articles of incorporation; the mailing address,
telephone number, and e-mail address of an individual who is the entity’s
statutory agent, president, or managing individual; the state in which the
entity is incorporated or registered; and the entity’s incorporation/
registration number;
         (b)   The address of the residential dwelling unit to be used as a
short-term rental;
         (c)   The address of all short-term rental properties located within
the planning jurisdiction for which property owner already holds a valid STR
permit;
         (d)   The name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of a
designated responsible party for the short-term rental, which shall constitute
his or her 24-hour contact information;
         (e)   A site-plan showing the number of bedrooms and the location of
the on-site improved parking area; and
         (f)   A signed acknowledgement of the maximum occupancy requirements
for short-term rental properties.
      (2)   Supplemental documentation. Attached to and concurrent with the
submission of the application described in this section, the property owner
shall provide:
         (a)   A sworn Code Compliance Verification Form;
         (b)   Proof of general liability insurance indicating that the
dwelling unit is used as a short-term rental;
         (c)   Proof that the property owner has authorized use of the dwelling
unit as a short-term rental. This shall include a copy of the following issued
in the owner's name: (i) the deed to the property, (ii) a recent mortgage
statement (issued the previous two months, or (iii) the previous year's
property tax assessment; and
         (d)   Proof of notification to the property owners within 100 feet of
the STR that the residential dwelling will be used as a short-term rental.
Proof of notification is to be provided in the form of a certificate of
mailing. This is a certification by the United States Postal Service that a
letter was mailed. The receipt of the certificate shall be stapled to a copy of
the notification that was submitted to nearby owners. The notification shall
include:
            1.   Street address of the proposed short-term rental.
            2.   A statement that the property owner is applying for an STR
permit.
            3.   Name and contact information of the owner.
            4.   Name and contact information for the designated responsible
party, if different from the owner.
            5.   Maximum allowable occupancy for the property.
      (3)   Grounds for denial or revocation.
         (a)   An application for an STR permit may be denied or revoked if:
            1.   The property owner submitted an incomplete application;
            2.   The proposed short-term rental fails to meet a specified
standard; or
            3.   The short-term rental property has incurred more than three
verified violations of this section during the preceding 12 months.
         (b)   The property owner may appeal the denial or revocation of an STR
permit to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with the provisions set forth
in §
152.260 of the Banner Elk Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2020)
§ 152.353 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The following operational requirements apply to all short-term rentals
properties:
   (A)   Maximum overnight occupancy. The overnight occupancy of an STR shall
not exceed two guests per bedroom plus two additional guests. The maximum
number of guests in a short-term rental unit is limited to ten guests,
excluding children under the age of three years of age. Bedrooms used in
calculating occupancy shall be taken from the permit application as affirmed by
the property owner, but shall not exceed the number of bedrooms listed on the
construction permit application on record with the Avery County Planning &
Inspections Department. For homes on a conditional or non-standard septic
system, the maximum overnight occupancy shall be posted prominently within the
short-term rental unit and shall not exceed the number of bedrooms for which
are reflected on the property tax card for the Avery County Tax Office. The
owner shall ensure that all listings and advertisements clearly set forth the
maximum number of overnight guests permitted.
   (B)   Events. Special events, including weddings, receptions, and large
gatherings, are not permitted in STR's. Owners of properties that have an
overnight capacity of greater than ten guests, or owners who seek to advertise
and use a dwelling unit for large events, are required to apply for a special
use permit with the Board of Adjustment. At such hearing, the Board of
Adjustment shall determine whether the proposed use is consistent with the
harmony and character of the neighborhood, including its impact of noise,
light, traffic, property values of surrounding properties, and any other factor
deemed appropriate by the Board.
   (C)   Display of registration number. Owner must prominently display the
registration number in all online STR advertisements.
   (D)   Display of responsible party. All STR's operating within this planning
jurisdiction shall have a designated responsible party who is available 24
hours a day during all times that the property is rented or used on a transient
basis. The name, telephone number, and e-mail address of the designee shall be
conspicuously posted within the short-term rental unit. The designee shall
reside within 20 miles of the short-term rental property and be available to
respond to complaints within 45 minutes of the receipt. A designee's repeated
failure to timely respond to complaints may result in the revocation of the STR
permit.
   (E)   Noise. The amount of noise generated by the STR shall not disrupt the
activities of the adjacent landowners, as regulated in the Town Code.
   (F)   Trash and recycling disposal. The dates and instructions for trash and
recycling collection shall be the responsibility of the property owner in
accordance with
Chapter 94 of the Town Code.
   (G)   Parking. The owner shall provide adequate on-site parking, to include
a minimum of one parking spot for every two bedrooms on an improved parking
surface.
   (H)   Age requirements. The principal guest of a short-term rental unit
shall be at least 21 years old.
   (I)   Minimum duration. The property owner shall not make the residential
dwelling unit available to short-term rental guests for a period of less than
overnight.
   (J)   The simultaneous rental to more than one party under separate
contracts shall be prohibited.
   (K)   Signage. No signage other than property identification (house number
and street name) shall be allowed.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2020)
§ 152.354 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Records. A short-term rental owner shall retain a log-book dating back
three years and, upon request, make it available to the local tax office. The
log shall include the dates of rental periods and the nightly rate charged
during each night of a rental stay.
   (B)   Advertisements. All advertisements or rental listings on online
hosting platforms shall include the following information:
      (1)   Maximum occupancy requirements.
      (2)   On-site parking availability.
      (3)   STR registration number.
   (C)   Taxes. Short-term rental owners are responsible for paying the state
sales tax and personal property taxes. Additionally, the short-term owner is
responsible for reporting the transient occupancy tax as established by state
and local law on the approved form. Occupancy tax forms are due the 20th of the
following close of each month and are required even if the tax is paid by a
hosting platform and is the totals reported are zeros.
   (D)   Inspections. The permitted property is subject to inspection by the
Zoning Administrator and the Building Inspector as deemed necessary, and at
other such times as deemed appropriate by the Zoning Administrator upon
reasonable notice to the property owner.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2020)
§ 152.355 ENFORCEMENT AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Enforcement. The procedures for the enforcement of this subchapter are
set forth in §§
152.240 through
152.246.
   (B)   Penalties and remedies for violations. The penalties and remedies for
violations of this subchapter are set forth in §
152.999.
   (C)   Permit revocations. The procedures for STR permit revocations,
including the appeal process are set forth in this
Chapter 152.
   (D)   Operating without a permit. Any person who is found to be operating a
short-term rental property without having been issued an STR permit shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Action for recovery of civil penalty. If payment of a civil penalty is
not made, or if violations are not cured or corrected, within the time
specified in the citation, then the matter may be referred to the Town Attorney
for institution of civil action before a court of competent jurisdiction,
including but not limited to obtaining injunctive relief against the offending
party.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2020)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, the performance of
any act is prohibited, or whenever any regulation, dimension or limitation is
imposed on the use of any land, or on the erection or alteration, or the use or
change of use of a structure, or the uses within such structure, a failure to
comply with such provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
violation and a separate offense.
      (2)   (a)   Unless otherwise provided herein, each violation of this
chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, except as otherwise provided by
statute, and violations of such provisions of this chapter shall be punished by
fine or imprisonment as by law provided. Each day any violation of this chapter
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense, except as may be
specifically provided.
         (b)   Violations of this chapter shall constitute either a misdemeanor
or, at the election of the town, shall subject the offender to a civil penalty
upon the issuance of a citation for said violation as hereinafter provided. The
civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15 days of the issuance of a
citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of this chapter, said civil
penalties shall be in the amount of $500 for each violation and each day any
single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
         (c)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision
of this chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from
a competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of Justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
         (d)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision
of this chapter that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of
real property may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by general
court of justice. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town may
apply to the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
         (e)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other
structures on the property be closed, demolished or removed; or that any other
action be taken that is necessary to bring the property into compliance with
this chapter. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and, posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall
be given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by judicial order. Cancellation of an order of abatement
shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
         (f)   The provision of this chapter may be enforced by one, all or a
combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
         (g)   Any ordinances hereafter adopted by the Town Council, the
violation of which shall incur a penalty shall specify whether the enforcement
shall be pursuant to the civil penalty and/or criminal penal provisions of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of this
chapter by the enforcement official, the penalty for which is a civil penalty,
the enforcement official of the town shall cause a warning citation to be
issued to the violator. The enforcement official shall be the Zoning
Administrator, or other such designee of the Town Manager. Such citation shall
set out the nature of the violation, the section violated, the date of the
violation and shall contain an order to immediately cease the violation. If the
violation is in the nature of an infraction for which an order of abatement
would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a reasonable period of time shall
be stated during which the violation shall be abated. The warning citation
shall specify that a second citation shall incur a civil penalty, together with
costs and attorney fees.
         (b)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days
from the date of said warning citation to the Board of Adjustment. Except in
any case where the ordinance violated, which is the subject of the warning
citation, specifically grants to the Board of Adjustment other powers in
considering appeals and such appeal is applied for, the Board of Adjustment in
considering appeals of warning citations shall have power only in the manner of
administrative review and interpretation where it is alleged that the
enforcement official has made an error in the application of an ordinance, in
the factual situation as it relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
         (c)   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the
period of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for
abatement based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement
official may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
         (d)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation a
civil citation shall be issued by the appropriate official of the town and
either served directly on the violator, his or her duly designated agent or
registered agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United
States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of
the violator as contained in the records of the town or obtained from the
violator at the time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be
deemed to have been served upon the mailing of said citation. The citation
shall direct the violator to appear before the Town Manager, or his or her
designee, within 15 days of the date of the citation, or alternatively to pay
the citation by mail. The violation for which the citation is issued shall have
been corrected by the time the citation is paid; otherwise, further citations
shall be issued. Citations are automatically considered a separate offense for
each day the infraction continues until the prohibited activity is ceased or
abated. A separate citation will not need to be issued for each day the
infraction continues.
         (e)   Within 15 days from the date the first civil citation is served,
the Town Manager shall have the authority, upon written request by the
violator, to void the civil citation(s) issued to date and relieve the violator
of any civil penalties due. The written request shall state the reasons why the
violator believes that the civil citation(s) should be voided. Prior to any
civil citations being voided, the violation for which the citation(s) were
issued shall be fully corrected. The Town Manager shall use extreme discretion
in voiding civil citations and such action shall be taken only under
extraordinary circumstances. Such circumstances may include, but not be limited
to, an error by an official of the town, civil citations not reaching the
violator due to mail delivery difficulties and extreme weather constraints.
After 15 days from the first civil citation being served, the Town Manager may
only exercise said authority when correcting an error made by an official of
the town. In those circumstances involving an error by an official of the town,
the Town Manager may exercise said authority without a written request by the
violator, but shall consider the recommendation of the official making the
error.
         (f)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of
its issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein or receive relief from the
Town Manager as described above, the town may institute a civil action in the
nature of debt in the appropriate division of the state’s general court of
justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney fees and such other
relief as permitted by law.
   (B)   Each day that the site is not restored beyond the approved deadline
for final removal, as per §§
152.050 through
152.057 of this chapter, shall be assessed a civil penalty of $50 per day fine.
Each day will be treated as a separate offense. If the violation continues for
a consecutive 60 days, the town will then have the authority to cash in the
performance bond and have the work performed.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-8-2012; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 315)
   (C)   Each sign that is illegally displayed shall be subject to a civil
penalty of $25 per sign per day for each day that the offense continues, plus
court costs and attorney fees. The town shall have the authority to remove and
impound any sign, without further notice, where any sign is creating a public
safety hazard through placement in any street, state road or highway, right-of-
way or other right-of-way, attached to trees, other natural features, fence
posts, telephone and/or utility poles. The town will attempt to notify the sign
owners by phone and/or first-class mail that the signs may be picked up after
payment of the associated penalties within ten business days at Town Hall
before the sign(s) are destroyed. The town will assess a $10 pick-up fee for
each sign the town removes. The town shall impound such signs for a period of
ten days. The owner of a sign impounded may recover it prior to the expiration
of the ten-day impoundment period upon paying all penalties assessed. In the
event a sign is not claimed within ten days of its impoundment, the town shall
have the authority to dispose of such sign. In the event a violating sign
requires special resources for its removal and impoundment, the town, or
independent contractor secured by the town, shall remove the sign and the
resulting charges shall be assessed to the owner and/or lessee.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 8-8-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2016; Ord.
passed 3-14-2019, § 612)
   (D)   (1)   Civil penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of
§§
152.150 through
152.170 of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty. The amount of
civil penalty shall be $100, except as hereinafter provided. Each day of a
continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Protected tree penalty. In addition to the above, the penalty for a
protected tree as provided by the list prepared by the Tree Board shall be
assessed as follows:
 
Circumference of Tree Removed or Damaged Civil Penalty Tree Replacement
1.50 - 3.50 ft.                          $800          3 inches in diameter
3.51 - 5.50 ft.                          $1,600        3 inches in diameter
5.51 - 7.50 ft.                          $2,400        3 inches in diameter
7.51 - 9.50 ft.                          $3,200        3 inches in diameter
9.51 + ft.                               $4,000        3 inches in diameter
 
      (3)   Development conservation penalty. For proposed developments which
remove or damage trees clearly marked for non-encroachment into the tree
conservation area, the penalty will be $1,000 per acre per day of the
development until the site has been replanted.
      (4)   Criminal penalty. A violation of §§
152.150 through
152.170 of this chapter subjects the offender to a civil penalty, pursuant to
the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-175, and does not subject the offender to
the criminal penalty provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
      (5)   Injunctive relief. Whenever there exists reasonable cause to
believe that any person is violating §§
152.150 through
152.170 of this chapter or any standards adopted pursuant to §§
152.150 through
152.170 of this chapter or any term, condition or provision of an approved
permit, the city may, either before or after the institution of any other
action or proceeding authorized by this chapter, institute a civil action in
the name of the city for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and an order of
abatement demanding the violator to correct the unlawful condition upon or
cease the unlawful use of the property.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2013; Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Ord.
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-14-2019, § 705)
CHAPTER 153: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01    Title
   
153.02    Purpose
   
153.03    Goals
   
153.04    Applicability
   
153.05    Definitions
   
153.06    General standards and design requirements
   
153.07    Facilities and structures in existence on adoption date
   
153.08    Issuance of permit; expiration
   
153.09    Tower approval standards
   
153.10    Appeals
   
153.11    Continued compliance required
   
153.12    Removal of abandoned towers or wireless support structures
   
153.13    Permitted use
Wireless Facilities and Support Structures; Approvals
   
153.25    Administrative review and approval
   
153.26    Conditional use permit review and approval
   
153.27    Content of application package for new sites
   
153.28    Exemption from approval process
Small Wireless Facilities
   
153.40    General consideration and limitations
   
153.41    Eligible facilities requests and collections
   
153.42    Collocation on existing wireless support structures and electric
transmission towers
   
153.43    Stealth (concealed) small wireless facilities attached to existing
buildings or structures
   
153.44    Non-stealth small wireless facilities
   
153.45    Concealed (stealth) small wireless support structures
   
153.46    Free-standing non-stealth small wireless support structures
   
153.47    Additional requirements and standards for all wireless support
structures
   
153.48    Design and neighborhood compatibility
   
153.49    Neighborhood meeting
   
153.50    Availability of existing structures
   
153.51    Setback reductions
   
153.52    Conditions
   
153.53    Standards conditions and requirements applicable to all wireless
communications facilities
   
153.54    Applications requiring conditional use permit approval
   
153.55    Variances
   
153.56    Submittal requirements
   
153.57    Non-conforming setbacks for existing wireless support structures
   
153.58    Qualified small wireless facilities
   
153.59    Siting
   
153.60    Applicability; compliance with law; exemptions; application process
   
153.61    Application process
   
153.62    Collocation of small wireless facilities; collocation; stealth and
concealment; screening, landscaping and spacing requirements for ground
equipment; historic preservation; applicable codes
   
153.63    Existing utility poles and town utility poles associated with small
wireless facilities; public safety; objective design standards for support
structures; stealth and concealment; historic preservation; applicable codes
   
153.64    New utilities; standard conditions
   
153.65    New lots; distance from existing wireless support structures
 
   
153.99    Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Town of Banner Elk Telecommunications
Tower Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish general guidelines and
regulations governing the location, size and design of wireless communication
facilities and/or telecommunication towers to be located within the town and
its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) while minimizing the impacts on
surrounding properties. The town encourages the use of existing buildings or
permanent stationary structures to attach newer and less conspicuous wireless
technology in order to provide additional telecommunications facility
opportunities and preserve the unique and rustic mountain atmosphere of the
town. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to excuse compliance with or
be in lieu of any other requirement of state or local law, except as
specifically provided herein. Without limitation, the provisions of this
chapter do not permit placement of wireless communication facilities on
privately owned utility poles or wireless support structures, or on private
property, without the consent of the property owner or any person who has an
interest in the property.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.03 GOALS.
   The goals of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town;
   (B)   To encourage the location of towers in non-residential, sparsely
populated areas and minimize the total number of towers throughout the
community and to encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites;
   (C)   To encourage the location and co-location of wireless communications
facilities equipment on existing structures thereby minimizing new visual,
aesthetic and public safety impacts, and to reduce the need for additional
antenna supporting structures;
   (D)   To encourage coordination between suppliers or wireless communications
facilities services in the town and its planning jurisdiction;
   (E)   To protect the unique aesthetics of the town while meeting the needs
of its citizens and businesses to enjoy the benefits of wireless communications
services; and
   (F)   To enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication and
wireless services to provide such services to the community in a safe,
effective and efficient manner.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction (ETJ).
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. Cessation of use of a wireless support structure for wireless
communications activity for at least the minimum period of time specified under
this chapter.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT/BASE STATION. A station at a specific site that is
authorized to communicate with any equipment serving or being used in
conjunction with a wireless facility or wireless support structure. The term
includes utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators,
batteries, cables, radio transceivers, antennas, equipment buildings, cabinets
and storage sheds, shelters or similar structures, foundation, fencing, gravel
and paving.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator for the town or such other person
that the Town Manager shall designate to administer the provisions of this
chapter and is authorized to grant an administrative review.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Human-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
utility poles and other similar mounting structures that camouflage or conceal
the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used to collect or radiate electromagnetic
waves, including both directional antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes
and satellite dishes, and omni-directional antennas, such as whips, but not
including satellite earth stations.
   BASE STATION. A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with
mobile stations, generally consisting of radio receivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies and other associated electronics. The term does not
include a wireless support structure or any equipment associated with a tower.
   CARRIER ON WHEELS OR CELL ON WHEELS (COW). A portable self-contained
wireless facility that can be moved to a location and set up to provide
wireless service on a temporary or emergency basis.
   COLLOCATION. The placement or installation of wireless facilities on
existing structures, including electrical transmission towers, water towers,
buildings and other structures capable of structurally supporting the
attachment of wireless facilities in compliance with applicable codes.
   CONCEALED WIRELESS FACILITY. Any wireless facility that is integrated as an
architectural feature of an existing structure or any new wireless support
structure designed to camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers
so that the purpose of the facility or wireless support structure is not
readily apparent to a casual observer.
   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. An area surrounding or near the base of a wireless
support structure within which are located the operating equipment for the
wireless facility.
   ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION TOWER. An electrical transmission structure used to
support high voltage overhead power lines. The term shall not include utility
pole.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. A wireless support structure, erected prior to the
application for an eligible facilities request, collocation or substantial
modification under this chapter that is capable of supporting the attachment of
wireless facilities. The term includes, but is not limited to, electrical
transmission towers, utility poles, buildings and water towers and other
structures capable of structurally supporting the attachment of wireless
facilities in compliance with applicable codes. The term shall not include any
utility pole.
   FALL ZONE. The area in which a wireless support structure may be expected to
fall in the event of a structural failure, as measured by engineering
standards.
   GUYED TOWER. A communication tower that is supported, in whole or in part,
by guy wires and ground anchors.
   LATTICE TOWER. A guyed or self-supporting, open steel frame structure, with
three or more sides that is used to support telecommunications equipment.
   MAJOR MOUNTAIN RIDGE. A ridge with an elevation higher than 3,000 feet above
mean sea level and an elevation of 500 feet or more above the elevation of an
adjacent valley floor.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no longer in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MINOR MODIFICATIONS.
      (1)   Those made to an existing tower, which do not:
         (a)   Add more than 10% to the height of the vertical structure;
         (b)   Increase the height of one additional antenna array to the tower
(with a 20-foot separation from the nearest existing antenna);
         (c)   Add more than 20 feet in width or the width of the support
structure at the level of the new appurtenance; or
         (d)   Add more than 2,500 square feet to the existing compound.
      (2)   MINOR MODIFICATIONS are allowed once per the life of the wireless
structure.
   MONOPOLE TOWER. A communication tower consisting of a single pole,
constructed without guy wires and ground anchors.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Ensuring that wireless facilities and wireless support
structures is kept in good operating condition. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE includes
inspections, testing and modifications that maintain functional capacity and
structural integrity; for example, the strengthening of a wireless support
structure’s foundation or of the wireless support structure itself. ORDINARY
MAINTENANCE does not include substantial or minor modifications.
   OVERALL HEIGHT. Height from grade, inclusive of antennas, lighting rods and
any other associated equipment, but exclusive of lights required by the FAA
that do not provide any support for any antenna or other equipment.
   QUALIFYING SMALL WIRELESS. A new small wireless facility that does not
extend ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which
it is collocated and is located either:
      (1)   In the town right-of-way; or
      (2)   Outside of the town right-of-way on property that is neither used
as a single-family residential property, nor vacant, but zoned single-family
residential.
   QUALIFYING UTILITY POLE. A new utility pole or a modified or replacement
utility pole that does not exceed 50 feet above ground level and that is
associated with a new small wireless facility that does not extend more than
ten feet above such utility pole.
   REPLACEMENT POLE. Pole of equal proportions and of equal height or such
other height that would not constitute a modification to an existing structure
in order to support wireless facilities or to accommodate collocation. This
definition requires the removal of the wireless structure that it replaces.
   SHROUD. A box or other container that contains, and is designed to
camouflage or conceal the presence of, a wireless facility, antenna or
accessory equipment.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet. For the purpose of this
division, the following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters; concealment elements;
telecommunications demarcation boxes; ground-based enclosures; grounding
equipment; power transfer switches; cut-off switches; vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services; or other support structures.
   STEALTH (CONCEALED) WIRELESS FACILITY, WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE OR
ANTENNA. Any wireless facility, support structure or antenna that is integrated
as an architectural feature of a structure or that is designed to camouflage or
conceal the presence of a wireless facility, wireless support structure or
antenna so that the purpose of the wireless facility, wireless support
structure or antenna is not readily apparent to a casual observer.
   STEALTH (CONCEALMENT) ELEMENT. Any design feature, including, but not
limited to, painting, shielding requirements, shrouds and restrictions on
location or height in relation to the surrounding area that are intended to
make a wireless communications facility less visible to the casual observer.
The design elements of a concealed (stealth) wireless communications facility
are CONCEALMENT ELEMENTS.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER or TOWER. A monopole, guyed or self-supporting
tower, constructed as a free-standing structure or in association with a
building, other permanent structure or equipment, that contains one or more
antennas intended to transmit or receive television, AM/FM radio, digital,
microwave, cellular, telephone or similar forms of electronic communication.
This definition shall not include any structures erected solely for a non-
commercial individual use such as residential television antennas.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from ground to the uppermost
point of the tower, not including the antenna(s) and shall not exceed 80 feet
in height.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Banner Elk Town Council.
   TOWN UTILITY POLE. A structure designed for and used to carry lines, cables
or wires for power, lighting, telephone or cable television owned by the town.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for and used to carry lines,
cables or wires for power, lighting, telephone or cable television.
   VEGETATIVE CANOPY. Trees that create a roof-like layer of spreading
branches.
   VIEWSHED. Those lands seen from a specific location that form a visual
composition with foreground, middle ground and background areas.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS. Any personal wireless service, including, but not
limited to: cellular; personal communication services (PCS); specialized mobile
radio (SMR); enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR); unlicensed spectrum
services utilizing Part 15 devices (i.e., wireless internet services); and
paging.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any manned or unmanned location for the
transmission and/or reception of wireless communications, usually consisting of
one or more of the following components: a wireless facility; base station;
equipment compound; and/or wireless support structure.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic
cable, regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless
of technological configuration.
      (2)   The term includes small wireless facilities. The term shall not
include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, within, and/or adjacent
to which the equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities.
      (3)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures or
utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with a particular antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person with a certificate to provide
telecommunications service in the state who builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities or wireless support
structures for small wireless facilities, but that does not provide wireless
service.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure, such as a monopole,
lattice tower or guyed tower that is designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless facilities. A utility pole is not a WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURE.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.06 GENERAL STANDARDS AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Wireless support structures shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   Information.
      (1)   A preliminary tower or wireless support structure/facility design
plan prepared by a state-registered professional engineer and containing the
following information:
         (a)   The tower or wireless support structure/facility owner’s name
and address, scale, north arrow, vicinity map and tax parcel identification
number;
         (b)   The name, address, signature and seal of the engineer preparing
the tower design plan;
         (c)   Information describing the tower or wireless support structure/
facility height and design; a cross-section of the structure; engineering
specifications detailing the construction of the tower or wireless support
structure/facility the base of the tower or wireless support structure/
facility; the foundations for all guy line anchors, and support structures.
Tower height shall not exceed 80 feet. A free-standing wireless support
structure/facility shall not exceed 20 feet higher than the maximum building
height. A conditional use permit shall be required for any wireless support
structure/facility that is greater than 55 feet;
         (d)   A tower or wireless support structure/facility elevation showing
the proposed painting and lighting schemes and all proposed antennas,
information describing the tower’s or wireless support structure/facility’s
capacity, including the maximum number and type of antennas that it can
accommodate, not to exceed five separate exposed antennas;
         (e)   An elevation of each proposed set of guy line anchors;
         (f)   The proposed tower or wireless support structure/facility design
leads;
         (g)   Designed fall zone for a tower or wireless support/facility
structure. All towers or wireless support structure/facility shall be enclosed
by fencing in an area that is equal to the height of the tower unless a state-
registered engineer certifies that the fall zone of the tower or wireless
support structure/facility and appurtenances will be within the proposed area
of enclosure. An additional penalty fee of $5,000 will be assessed if the tower
falls outside of the enclosure area.
      (2)   The tower or wireless support structure/facility must be designed
to meet the ANSI/ELA/TIA-222-G standards of minimum 100-year return wind speed
and a minimum one-half inch of solid radial ice. This calculation must be
certified by a state-registered engineer.
      (3)   Towers or wireless support structures shall be sited on a property
so that all ice-fall or other debris from a potential tower failure can be
contained in the property. The minimum distance from the tower’s or wireless
support structure/facility base to the property line shall be equal to 125% of
the tower’s height. However, the Board of Adjustment may reduce the setback
distance where a state-registered engineer has certified that the tower or
wireless support structure/facility has been designed so that the fall zone
will be within a reduced setback area. Guy wires and other support devices
shall be no closer than 200 feet from any lot line.
      (4)   A tower or wireless support structure/facility shall be set back
from other on-site and off-site towers or wireless support structures/
facilities and supporting structures such that the failure or collapse of one
tower will not strike another tower or wireless support structure/facility or
its support structure.
      (5)   The proposed tower or wireless support structure/facility shall be
engineered and constructed to accommodate one additional antenna that does not
add more than 20 feet in width or the width of the support structure at the
level of the new appurtenance. A new tower or wireless support structure/
facility permit approval is conditioned upon the tower structure’s owner
agreeing to allow the future collocation of other antennas upon the tower or
wireless support structure/facility. This provision shall not apply to monopole
towers or alternative tower structures located on a major mountain ridge where
the height restriction placed on the tower or alternative tower or wireless
support/facility structure makes it infeasible or impractical to place more
than one antenna on the tower or wireless support structure/facility.
      (6)   The town’s Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to pay
for the cost of the town to hire a consultant to review the application of the
applicant for any hearing; which is within the authority of the Board of
Adjustments. Such fee shall not be used to pay for the consultant’s travel or
meal expenses and shall not exceed $1,000.
      (7)   Failure to comply with the collocation requirements of this
division (A) may result in the denial of a permit request or the revocation of
an existing permit.
      (8)   Towers or wireless support structure/facilities shall be medium
gray matte finish or another blending color as approved by the town, except
when some other color may be required by applicable federal or state
regulations. When deemed appropriate by the Board of Adjustment, a stealth
tower can be required. A completely concealed wireless facility which is
located within an existing structure shall not be subject to this requirement.
      (9)   Towers or wireless support structures shall display no
advertisements, images or lettering of any kind; except that, required by
federal or state regulations for emergency and cautionary purposes.
      (10)   Property located within the tower’s or wireless support
structure’s fall area shall not be subdivided so long as the tower or wireless
support structure/facility is standing.
      (11)   The base of the tower or wireless support structure/facility shall
be surrounded by an opaque fence or wall at least eight feet in height unless
the tower or wireless support structures is constructed entirely on a building
over eight feet in height.
      (12)   Only monopole towers or alternative wireless support structures to
be designed to blend the structure into the surrounding area shall be
permitted.
      (13)   Location of a wireless structure or tower on a major mountain
ridge shall be considered as a last resort and justifying documentation must be
provided. No tower, or alternative tower, or wireless support structures
located on any major mountain ridge shall have its highest point at an
elevation greater than 20 feet higher than the vegetative canopy immediately
surrounding the base of the tower. If no vegetative canopy exists, the tower
shall have its highest point at an elevation no greater than 40 feet above the
ground. A wireless support structure located on any major mountain ridge shall
be monopole and designed to be concealed by a stealth design of the town’s
approval. Lighting on these structures will not be permitted unless required by
state or federal law.
   (B)   Exterior lighting specifications.
      (1)   No artificial lighting shall be permitted on towers or small
wireless support structures/facilities, except as required to meet the minimum
standards of the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (2)   If lighting is required, the Zoning Administrator shall review the
available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the
least disturbance to surrounding properties and views.
      (3)   Security lighting at the base of a tower or wireless support
structure/facility may be provided if the lighting is shielded so that no light
is directed toward adjacent properties or rights-of- way.
   (C)   Detailed landscaping plan.
      (1)   The tower or wireless support structure/facility shall be designed
and placed on the site in a manner that takes maximum advantage of existing
trees, mature vegetation and structures so as to:
         (a)   Use the existing site features to screen the tower or wireless
support structure/facility from prevalent views; or
         (b)   Use existing site features as a background so that the tower or
wireless support structure blends into the background with increased site
distances.
      (2)   Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the property
where the tower or wireless support structure/facility site is located shall be
preserved to the maximum extent possible. The tower and/or wireless support
structure/facility shall be designed and placed on the site in a manner that
will take maximum advantage of existing trees and mature vegetation so that the
existing features will be used to screen the tower and wireless support
structures/facilities from prevalent views.
   (D)   Location of telecommunications towers or wireless support structures.
      (1)   No telecommunications tower or wireless support structures may be
located within the Historic Preservation District of the town unless the tower
or wireless support structure is completely concealed from view.
      (2)   All free-standing towers shall be located upon a lot or leased
property area consisting of a size of at least four acres. The enclosed fencing
area around the tower shall be set back from all property lines or the boundary
of the leased area to include the entire fall zone area. The remaining area of
the lot or leased area of the tower shall, with the exception of access roads
and other utility lines and their respective setbacks, consist of existing or
planted tree growth sufficient to reasonably screen the tower from view.
      (3)   The applicant must present evidence of fee simple ownership or a
recorded leasehold interest from the record owners of all property within a
radius equal to the height of the tower. Any lease agreement must allow the
leaseholder to enter into leases with other providers. Any lease agreement must
specify that if the applicant provider fails to remove the tower upon 180 days
of its discontinued use or Abandonment, the responsibility for removal shall
fall upon the landowner.
   (E)   Fees. The application must be accompanied by payment of a non-
refundable processing fee in the amount of $5,000.
   (F)   Variances. In the event the applicant wishes to request a variance
from any requirement set forth in this chapter, the requirements set forth in
this chapter for the town shall apply.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.07 FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES IN EXISTENCE ON ADOPTION DATE.
   (A)   The owner of any tower within the town shall maintain with the town’s
Zoning Administrator a listing of the inventory of the applicant’s existing
towers within the town and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction, including
specific information about the location, height and design of each tower.
   (B)   Wireless facilities and wireless support structures that were legally
permitted on or before the date this chapter was enacted shall be considered a
permitted and lawful use.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.08 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Following the Board of Adjustment’s approval of a conditional use
permit for a proposed tower, and the permit owner’s acknowledgment, acceptance
and execution of the conditional use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall
issue a tower permit.
   (B)   If a building permit is not obtained for the construction of the tower
or wireless support structure/facility within 24 months after the approval of
the conditional use permit, or if the conditional use permit expires in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.269 of this code of ordinances, then the tower permit shall be void.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.09 TOWER APPROVAL STANDARDS.
   In addition to the criteria set forth above, the requirements in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances for the approval and issuance of conditional
use permits by the Board of Adjustment, shall apply as may be applicable in
considering the approval of a tower or wireless support structure facility
application.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   In accordance with the Telecommunications Act of 1996, any decision by
the Board of Adjustment denying a request for permission to install or
construct a wireless telecommunication facility must be in writing and must be
based on evidence in a written record before the Board.
   (B)   The decision of the Board of Adjustments or the Zoning Administrator
regarding any action taken regarding any telecommunication tower or wireless
support structure/facility application or other decision regarding the
application of this chapter may be appealed in accordance with the rules and
regulations as set forth in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.11 CONTINUED COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All permits for the erection of a tower or wireless support structure/
facility are issued in reliance upon the condition that the tower or wireless
support structure/facility will in fact conform to the plans that are submitted
as the basis for the permit. Once erected, the tower or wireless support
structure/facility must at all times be maintained in compliance with the
provisions of the conditional use permit.
   (B)   To ensure the structural integrity of towers or wireless support
structures/facilities, the owner of a tower or wireless support structure/
facility shall ensure that it is constructed and maintained in compliance with
standards contained in the applicable state building codes and the applicable
standards for towers or wireless support structures/facilities that are
published by the Electronic Industries Association (EIA) as amended from time
to time.
   (C)   At least every 12 months, an expert who is regularly involved in the
maintenance, inspection and/or erection of telecommunication towers or wireless
support structures/facilities shall inspect the tower or wireless support
structure/facility at the owner’s expense. At a minimum, this inspection shall
be conducted in accordance with the tower or wireless support structure/
facility inspection check list provided in the EIA Standard 222 Structural
Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Support Structures. A copy of
such inspection record shall be forwarded to the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   If the Zoning Administrator concludes that a tower or wireless support
structure/facility fails to comply with the state’s Building Codes and/or the
EIA standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice
being provided to the owner of the tower or wireless support structure/
facility, the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower or wireless support
structure/facility into compliance with such codes and standards. If the owner
fails to bring such tower or wireless support structure/facility into
compliance within 30 days, the Board of Adjustment may order the removal of the
tower or wireless support structure/facility at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.12 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED TOWERS OR WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   Any antenna, tower or wireless support structure/facility must be removed
within 180 days upon which it ceases to be in active use. Upon approval of the
application to install a tower or wireless support structure/facility within
the jurisdiction of the town, the applicant shall post a bond with the town
equal to the present day cost of removal of the tower or wireless support
structure/facility as estimated by a state-licensed general contractor employed
by the town to provide such cost. If requested by the applicant, the town shall
solicit three quotes from licensed contractors to establish this amount and
shall apply the lowest amount provided as the amount of the performance bond.
Upon the removal of the tower or wireless support structure/facility by the
applicant, the bond will be refunded to the applicant. In the alternative, the
applicant may post a performance bond issued through a licensed state insurance
provider in the amount stated above.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.13 PERMITTED USE.
   Telecommunication towers and/or wireless support structures/facilities shall
be allowed within the jurisdiction of the town, subject to the compliance with
the terms and conditions as set forth herein and upon approval by the town in
accordance with this chapter and applicable state and federal law.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
WIRELESS FACILITIES AND SUPPORT STRUCTURES; APPROVALS
§ 153.25 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   All administrative review application packages must contain the
following:
      (1)   Administrative review application signed by applicant; and
      (2)   For collocations and any modification from the original CUP that
constitutes a minor modification: a written verification from a licensed
professional engineer certifying that the host support structure is
structurally and mechanically capable of supporting additional antenna or a
configuration of antenna as per minor modifications.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may grant a permit approval as a matter of
right for the following actions:
      (1)   Maintenance and replacement of a pole as long as it does not change
in appearance; or
      (2)   A change which constitutes a minor modification as defined by this
chapter.
   (C)   Any changes must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator in writing
and a written approval returned before any work can be performed.
   (D)   Non-commercial, individual use towers that are twenty feet in height
or less shall require a zoning permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
lieu of the conditional use permit. Fees for zoning permits for small wireless
facilities are $100 each for the first five small wireless facilities, plus $50
for each additional small wireless facility. No more than five small wireless
facilities shall be located on a single tract.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.26 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no telecommunication tower
shall be erected, constructed, placed, moved, used or altered unless a
conditional use permit has been approved by the Board of Adjustment and a tower
permit has been obtained from the Zoning Administrator. Small wireless
facilities and structures are permitted in the C-2, C-1P, G-O, CZD Districts
with approval of the Zoning Administrator. No permit for a tower or small
wireless facility or structure shall be issued that is not in compliance with
this chapter. No building permit shall be issued for any tower that falls under
the provisions of this chapter unless that tower has received a tower permit.
No building permit shall be issued for any small wireless facility or structure
unless the facility or structure has been approved by the Zoning Administrator
or the Board of Adjustment as required.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.27 CONTENT OF APPLICATION PACKAGE FOR NEW SITES.
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall contain:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Street address, parcel number and/or legal description for the
premises or property upon which the tower is to be located; and
      (3)   Written statement from the property owner(s) of the proposed tower
site or small wireless facility or structure authorizing the placement of the
tower, facility or structure on the property.
   (B)   A site development plan prepared by a state-registered land surveyor
and containing the following information:
      (1)   Title block containing the tower owner’s name, the property owner’s
name and their addresses; scale; north arrow; vicinity map; tax parcel
identification number(s); and the tower’s, structure’s or facility’s latitude
and longitude coordinates;
      (2)   The name, address, signature and seal of the surveyor preparing the
site development plan;
      (3)   The surveyed boundary lines of the parcel(s) that will contain the
proposed tower, facility or structure and its fall area with land contours;
      (4)   The name, address and tax parcel identification numbers of all
owners of property abutting the subject property; and existing land uses
surrounding the site;
      (5)   Identification of all structures located on the parcel, all
existing and proposed roads and parking areas; and overhead utilities and
utility connections within and to the proposed site;
      (6)   All existing towers, facilities or structures on the property or
any towers, facilities or structures whose fall area encroaches onto the
property;
      (7)   The proposed tower’s, facility or structure’s location, the
proposed fall area and the location of all support structures and guy line
anchors;
      (8)   The location of existing and/or proposed fences;
      (9)   The ground elevation of the proposed telecommunication structure’s
base shall be based on mean sea level as provided through FEMA control points
or another similar source; and
      (10)   The height of the vegetative canopy at the site.
   (C)   Where a tower is proposed adjacent to a residential area, the setback
space is to be used as a buffer zone. The buffer shall consist of a semi-opaque
planting/landscaping screen. Trees shall be at least six to seven feet tall for
evergreens and six to eight feet tall with a one-half inch caliper for
deciduous trees at the time of planting and shall reach a height of no less
than 20 feet at maturity. The tower’s fenced in area shall be set back 200 feet
from the adjoining property line.
   (D)   The applicant must be willing to allow the town, the town’s Fire
Department or other public entities use of the wireless structure; provided
that, wireless structure load and frequency compatibility issues are satisfied.
   (E)   The town’s Board of Adjustment shall give preference to proposed tower
or wireless support structure sites that are not located on a major mountain
ridge. Alternative tower structures shall be given preference over monopole
towers.
   (F)   The tower or wireless support structure owner must provide the Zoning
Administrator with proof of general liability insurance in the minimum amount
of $1,000,000.
   (G)   If the tower or wireless support structure, or the equipment on the
site, is of a type that will emit a continuous or frequent noise, the applicant
must prove that sufficient action will be taken to prevent such noise from
being audible to surrounding residents and businesses. Tower facilities or
wireless support structures and/or facilities and equipment must be operated so
that noise levels are less than 45dB as measured from the property line nearest
to the tower or wireless support structure facilities.
   (H)   The applicant shall comply with federal standards for radio frequency
emissions. The applicant shall ensure that the tower or wireless support
structure/antennas will not cause localized interference with the reception of
area television or radio broadcasts. If, on review, the town finds that the
tower’s or wireless support structure’s antenna interferes with such reception,
and if the interference is not corrected within 60 days, the town may revoke or
modify the conditional use permit.
   (I)   A sign identifying the owner(s) and operators) of the tower or
wireless support structure and an emergency telephone number shall be placed in
a clearly visible location on the premises of the tower or wireless support
structure. This sign shall contain no additional advertisements or lettering,
other than that required by this chapter, or federal and state regulations. The
maximum size of this sign shall be 15 square feet or two square feet for a
small cell wireless facility.
   (J)   The tower or wireless support structure must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and any other agency of the federal
government with the authority to regulate towers, or wireless support structure
and antennas and a signed statement that they meet these standards shall be
kept on file at all times.
   (K)   Mobile or immobile equipment not used in direct support of a tower or
wireless support structure facility shall not be stored or parked on the site
of a telecommunication tower or wireless support structure, unless repairs to
the tower or wireless support structure are being made.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.28 EXEMPTION FROM APPROVAL PROCESS.
   The following are exempt from all town zoning approval processes and
requirements:
   (A)   A carrier on wheels (COW) may be placed for a period of time up to 60
days within a one-year calendar period only upon properties zoned commercial or
governmental within the town or its ETJ or during a declared state of emergency
affecting the town as declared by the Governor of the state or the President of
the United States;
   (B)   Ordinary maintenance of existing wireless facilities as defined by
this chapter;
   (C)   Removal or replacement of transmission equipment on an existing
wireless tower or base station which does not result in a change in the number
of antennas, height of the tower, size of the structure or general appearance
of the facility;
   (D)   Any wireless communication facilities below 65 feet when measured from
ground level which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed
by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and used exclusively for amateur
radio operations;
   (E)   Satellite dishes;
   (F)   Removal or replacement of an antenna or equipment on an existing
wireless support structure or base station that does not change the physical
dimensions of the wireless support structure or base station, or defeat any of
the concealment elements of the wireless support structure or base station;
   (G)   A temporary wireless communications facility if necessary to continue
providing service while a wireless support structure or other structure upon
which the existing wireless communications facility has been placed, such as a
building or water tank, is undergoing maintenance, replacement or
reconstruction during which it will be impossible or unsafe to operate the
existing wireless communications facility; except that:
      (1)   The temporary facility must be located on site and no taller than
the existing wireless support structure or other structure;
      (2)   The temporary facility must meet the setback requirements in §
153.43 of this chapter;
      (3)   The temporary facility must comply with all federal and state
requirements; and
      (4)   The temporary facility must be removed within 60 days of the
conclusion of the maintenance, replacement or reconstruction, or within one
year, whichever is shorter, unless the time is extended by the Zoning
Administrator for good cause shown as in the use of a carrier on wheels as
listed in the definitions in §
153.05 of this chapter.
   (H)   Public safety facilities or installations required for public safety
on public or private property, including transmitters, repeaters and remote
cameras so long as the facilities are designed to match the supporting
structure.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 153.40 GENERAL CONSIDERATION AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Small wireless facilities are permitted as a conditional use in
accordance with §
152.028 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   New small wireless support structures are prohibited in the pubic
rights-of-way.
   (C)   The following are the town’s preferences for wireless communications
facility locations, in descending order:
      (1)   Collocations on existing wireless support structures, transmission
towers and utility poles;
      (2)   Stealth (concealed) wireless facility attached to existing
building/structure;
      (3)   New stealth (concealed) wireless support structure;
      (4)   New non-stealth wireless support structure - monopole; and
      (5)   New non-stealth wireless support structure - lattice type.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.41 ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUESTS AND COLLOCATIONS.
   Collocations and eligible facilities requests, as defined in G.S. § 160D-931
or 47 U.S.C. § 1455, shall be processed in accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-933,
160D-934 and/or federal laws and regulations as appropriate, in approving any
eligible facilities request. The town solely intends to comply with any
requirements of federal law or state law and not to grant any property rights
or interests, except as compelled by federal or state law. Without limitation,
approval does not exempt the applicant from, or prevent the town from, opposing
a proposed modification that is subject to complaint under the National
Historic Preservation Act being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq. or the National
Environmental Policy Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4321 et seq. Collocations are only
permitted as provided in §§
153.42 and
153.43 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.42 COLLOCATION ON EXISTING WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES AND ELECTRIC
TRANSMISSION TOWERS.
   (A)   The collocation of additional wireless facilities on existing, free-
standing wireless support structures shall be consistent with the existing
concealment method, if applicable, of the free-standing wireless support
structure.
   (B)   The top of the additional wireless facility may not exceed the highest
point of the existing wireless facility on the free-standing wireless support
structure.
   (C)   For the purposes of wireless facility collocations governed by §
153.07 of this chapter, an existing electric transmission tower shall be
considered an existing wireless support facility.
   (D)    An existing electric transmission tower that is being replaced by a
taller transmission tower for the primary purpose of hosting wireless
facilities is subject to all applicable regulations in this subchapter related
to wireless support structures.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.43 STEALTH (CONCEALED) SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES ATTACHED TO EXISTING
BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Stealth wireless facilities, including any feed lines, antenna, and
accessory equipment must be enclosed, camouflaged, screened, obscured or
otherwise not readily apparent to a casual observer. A structure utilized to
support a wireless facility must be allowed in that zoning district.
   (B)   If located in the right-of-way of any public road or street, stealth
antenna shall be located on an existing utility pole which does not exceed the
height of 35 feet. Stealth antenna on an existing utility pole, whether inside
or outside the right-of-way, shall not exceed ten feet above the highest point
of the pole.
   (C)   Any ground-mounted components of stealth antenna shall be located
flush with the ground to avoid inconveniencing the public or creating a hazard.
To the extent permitted above ground, it shall be appropriately camouflaged to
blend in with its surroundings.
   (D)   The top of the stealth wireless facility may not be more than ten feet
above the top of the building or structure to which it is attached.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.44 NON-STEALTH SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   Non-stealth small wireless facilities are prohibited in the public right-of-
way. Except as provided in §
153.42 of this chapter, for collocation on existing small wireless support
structures, non-concealed small wireless facilities shall only be allowed on
transmission towers. The top may not exceed more than ten feet of the
transmission towers.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.45 CONCEALED (STEALTH) SMALL WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Design consideration and visibility.
      (1)   Concealed (stealth) small wireless support structures shall be
designed to complement the physical landscape in which they are located.
Examples of stealth wireless support structures that may be compatible include,
but are not limited to:
         (a)   Faux pine trees;
         (b)   Unipoles/slick sticks (matte medium gray color only);
         (c)   Bell towers; and
         (d)   Water towers.
      (2)   New stealth small wireless support structures shall be configured
and located in a manner that shall minimize the adverse effects including
visual impacts on landscape, horizon and adjacent properties. New free-standing
stealth small wireless support structures shall be designed to be compatible
with adjacent structures and landscapes with specific design considerations
such as architectural designs, scale, color and texture.
   (B)   Setbacks. The following setback requirements are established to
mitigate potential safety and aesthetic impacts upon surrounding properties.
Setbacks shall be measured from the base of the wireless support structure. The
minimum setback from each property line shall be 125% of the height of the
tower or 100 feet, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Monopine/faux trees. The wireless support structure is incorporated
within an existing cluster of trees as long as it is within the setbacks. The
support structure is to be designed as a tree trunk and antenna and arrays
flush mounted and completely concealed by limbs and branches and leaves. Limbs,
branches and leaves shall cover at least 50% of the upper half of the wireless
support structure.
   (D)   Conditional use permit. A conditional use permit shall be required for
any stealth wireless support structure that is greater than 50 feet in overall
height and located within 400 feet of any property used or zoned for single-
family residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.46 FREE-STANDING NON-STEALTH SMALL WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The following setback requirements are established to mitigate
potential safety and aesthetic impacts upon surrounding properties. Setbacks a
measured from the base of the support structure. The minimum setback from each
property line and road right-of-way shall be 200 feet or two times the overall
height of the structure, whichever is greater.
   (B)   The maximum permitted height for a non-stealth small wireless support
structure is 20 feet higher than the 35 feet height restriction in all zoning
districts.
   (C)   A conditional use permit shall be required for any non-stealth small
wireless support structure that is within 400 feet of the property line of any
property used or zoned for single-family residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.47 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS FOR ALL WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Existing wireless support structure. New antenna may be collocated
upon wireless support structures that exist on the effective date of this
chapter. A request to increase in height for an existing wireless support
structure shall require issuance of a conditional use permit, if a conditional
use permit would be required to erect a new wireless support structure at the
requested height.
   (B)   Collocation required. All free-standing wireless support structures
shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate no less than three antenna
arrays if the location is not a major mountain ridge.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.48 DESIGN AND NEIGHBORHOOD COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   The exterior appearance of all associated support structure and
buildings shall be compatible with the other buildings in the surrounding area.
Wireless communication facilities shall be blended with the natural
surroundings as much as possible. Except when otherwise required by applicable
federal or state regulations, colors and materials shall be used that are
compatible with the surrounding area and usually shall be a matte medium gray
color. Wireless communications facilities shall be located, designed and/or
screened to blend in with the existing natural or built surroundings to reduce
the visual impacts as much as possible, and to be compatible with neighboring
land uses and the character of the community.
   (B)   Lighting on wireless support structures shall not be permitted, except
as required by federal or state regulations and shall not exceed nainimum
requirements. The permit issuing authority may require the applicant to apply
to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for compliance with FAA standards
for a dual lighting system rather than a red and white marking pattern, when
the permit issuing authority determines such a marking pattern would cause
aesthetic blight due to the visibility of the wireless support structure.
   (C)   Support buildings located in any residential district may not be used
as an employment center for any worker. This provision does not prohibit the
periodic maintenance or periodic monitoring of equipment and instruments.
   (D)   No advertising sign or logo shall be permitted on any wireless
communications facility.
   (E)   Equipment compounds shall not be used as storage yards, including, but
not limited to, storage for any excess equipment or hazardous materials, nor be
used as habitable space.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.49 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING.
   At the time of submitting an application for a proposed wireless support
structure that requires approval for a conditional use, the applicant shall
submit written documentation that they have conducted a neighborhood meeting,
to which the adjoining property owners of subject property have been invited to
explain the proposed facility and answer questions. Documentation should
include: the time, date and location of the meeting; a list of meeting
attendees; a brief summary of the presentation and/or information discussed;
and questions and concerns expressed by neighboring property owners.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.50 AVAILABILITY OF EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   No new free-standing wireless support structure shall be permitted unless
the applicant demonstrates that no existing or previously approved wireless
support structure can be reasonably used for the wireless communications
facility placement instead of the construction of a new wireless support
structure; that residential, historic and designated scenic areas cannot be
served from outside of the area; or that the proposed height of a new wireless
support structure or initial wireless communications facility placement or a
proposed height increase of a substantially changed wireless support structure
or replacement wireless support structure, is necessary to provide the
applicant’s designed service.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.51 SETBACK REDUCTIONS.
   In consideration of an application for conditional use for wireless
communication facilities, the Board of Adjustment may grant a reduction of the
minimum setback requirement upon consideration of circumstances or aspects
which reduce the off-site effects of the facility on adjacent properties. Such
circumstances or aspects may include, but are not limited to topography, berms;
the proximity of existing or potential uses; existing vegetation and
improvements made or proposed to the site to obscure or reduce visibility of
the wireless support structure from adjacent properties; the concentration of
existing and/or proposed wireless support structures in the area, and whether
the height, design (including structural features), placement or other
characteristics of the proposed wireless support structure could be modified to
have a less intrusive impact.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.52 CONDITIONS.
   Notwithstanding any of the standards of this subchapter, the Board of
Adjustment may require any other reasonable conditions to mitigate the impact
of wireless support structure(s) on adjacent properties and uses including, but
not limited to, conditions or modifications related to the style, height and
design of the facility.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.53 STANDARD CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL WIRELESS
COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Wireless communications facilities shall be conditional in all zoning
districts per §
152.028 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Grading shall be limits to only the area necessary for the wireless
communications facilities and equipment compound, and access to the facility.
   (C)   Documentation, sealed by a registered professional engineer with
wireless communications expertise, shall be provided indicating that the new
facility, or the modification of an existing facility complies with the
following. Such compliance shall be maintained throughout the life of the
facility and include:
      (1)   That the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) requirements
for the proposed improvements are met; and
      (2)   All applicable building, structural electrical, and safety codes
and with all other laws codifying objective standards reasonably related to
health and safety are met.
   (D)   Applicants must obtain all other permits, authorizations, approvals,
agreements and declarations that may be required for installation, modification
and/or operation of the proposed facility under federal, state, local law,
rules or regulations, including, but not limited to, encroachment agreements
and FCC approvals. An approval issued under this section is not in lieu of any
other permit required under this chapter,
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances or town code, nor is it a franchise, license
or other authorization to occupy the public right-of-way, or a license, lease
or agreement authorizing occupancy of any other public private property. An
approval issued in error, based on incomplete or false information submitted by
an applicant or that conflicts with the provisions of this chapter or
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances. No person may maintain a wireless
communications facility in place unless required state or federal authorization
remain in force.
   (E)   (1)   All wireless communications facilities and related equipment,
including, but not limited to, fences, cabinets, poles, and landscaping, shall
be maintained in good working condition over the life of the use. This shall
include keeping the structures maintained to the visual standards established
at the time of approval. The wireless communications facility shall remain free
from trash, debris, litter, graffiti and other forms of vandalism. Any damage
shall be repaired as soon as practicable, and in no instance more than 30
calendar days from the date of notification by the town. All the wireless
communications facility equipment must be removed upon expiration/termination/
revocation of the approval and/or when no longer in operation, whichever occurs
first.
      (2)   In public rights-of-way, damaged or deteriorated components must be
corrected within five business days of notification. If a wireless
communications facility or portions of a wireless communications facility are
taken out of service, the components must be removed within 30 business days of
being taken out of service and affected facilities restored to their prior
condition.
   (F)   The property owner(s) or applicant shall submit a certification letter
from a state-certified land surveyor or licensed engineer which verifies that
the structure’s height complies with the approved development plan.
   (G)   The applicant or owner shall maintain onsite at the wireless
communications facility contact information for all parties responsible for
maintenance of the facility.
   (H)   The owner of the free-standing wireless support structure shall
maintain insurance for the structure in the amount of at least $1,000,000, and
shall, as part of the original site plan application, site plan amendments and
any subsequent modifications, provide documentation demonstrating compliance
with this requirement.
   (I)   After written notice to the applicant and/or owner, the town may
require the relocation, at the applicant/owner’s expense and according to the
then existing standards for wireless communications facilities, of any wireless
communications facility located in the public right-of-way, as necessary for
maintenance or reconfiguration of the right-of-way for other public projects,
or take any other action or combination of actions necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the town.
   (J)   Collocation or modification of wireless communications facilities on
an existing non-conforming wireless support structure or base station shall not
be construed as an expansion, enlargement or increase in intensity of a non-
conforming structure and/or use; provided that, the collocation or modification
constitutes an eligible facilities request.
   (K)   Wireless communications facilities placed in the public right-of-way
must comply with all applicable provisions of the town’s code of ordinances
relating to encroachments.
   (L)   No portion of a wireless communications facility may be placed in the
public right-of-way in a manner that:
      (1)   Obstructs pedestrians or vehicular or bicycle access, obstructs
sight lines or visibility for traffic, traffic signage or signals, or
interferes with access by persons with disabilities. An applicant may be
required to place equipment in vaults to avoid obstructions or interference;
and/or
      (2)   Results in ground-mounted above-ground equipment cabinets in the
public right-of-way associated with the support structure that are 10% larger
in height of overall volume than other equipment cabinets not in the same area;
and/or
      (3)   Involves placement of pole-mounted equipment whose lowest point is
lower than eight feet above ground level.
      (4)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as affecting
the underlying property rights between the respective parties regarding
ownership and use of property, and nothing set forth herein shall be construed
as creating any additional property rights in the holder of a public right-of-
way against the underlying property owner.
   (M)   The applicant shall be required to provide documentation certifying
compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations.
   (N)   The applicant shall present to the Zoning Administrator proof of
either fee simple ownership, an option to purchase or lease, a recorded
leasehold with interest or an easement from the recorded owner of all property
involved and any necessary rights-of-way to the wireless facility site.
   (O)   Signage shall be limited to a sign identifying the owner(s) and
operators) of the tower, an emergency telephone number and any other signage as
required by any government agency shall be placed in a clearly visible location
on the premises of the tower.
   (P)   Any wireless communications facility shall be removed within 180 days
of the date on which it ceases to be operable or in active use. The owner of
the facility shall remove the facility within 90 days of receipt of a notice of
abandonment from the Zoning Administrator. After such time has elapsed, if the
facility has not been removed, enforcement action shall commence.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.54 APPLICATIONS REQUIRING CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL.
   The following shall be required, as applicable, in addition to the findings
normally required for approval of a conditional use permit, in order for the
Board of Adjustment to approve the conditional use:
   (A)   A finding that is not reasonably feasible to collocate new antennas
and equipment on an existing wireless support structure or structures or
utility poles within the applicant’s geographic search ring. Collocating on an
existing support structure or utility pole is not reasonably feasible if
collocation is technically or commercially impractical, or the owner, of the
existing support structure(s) or utility pole(s) is unwilling to enter into a
contract at fair market value;
   (B)   In determining whether a wireless communications facility is in
harmony with the area, and the effects on general compatibility of a facility
with adjacent properties, the approving authority shall consider the aesthetic
effects of a facility as well as the factors that mitigate the aesthetic
effects, including:
      (1)   Documentation of balloons tests and other methodologies used to
stimulate the height and appearance of the proposed wireless communications
facility shall be provided by the applicant, along with descriptions of the
locations, distances and vantage points that formed the basis of the
simulations(s);
      (2)   Factors that the approving authority may consider in determining
the aesthetic effects of a proposed wireless communications facility include:
         (a)   The protection of the view sensitive or particularly scenic
areas specifically designated in adopted plans such as unique natural features,
scenic roadways and historic sites;
         (b)   The concentration of wireless communication facilities in the
proposed area; and
         (c)   Whether the height, design, placement or other characteristics
of the proposed wireless communication facilities could be modified to have a
less intrusive visual impact.
   (C)   The approving authority shall not make a determination on the
electromagnetic field (EMF) effects of the wireless communications facility on
the health of the public. Documentation that certifies that the facility meets
or exceeds applicable American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards as
adopted by the FCC in order to protect the public from unnecessary exposure to
electromagnetic radiation shall be sufficient. This shall not preclude other
issues regarding health, safety, and welfare of the public from being
considered in order to satisfy the finding.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.55 VARIANCES.
   Technically dimensional requirements shall not prohibit or have the effect
of prohibiting the provisions of personal wireless services contrary to the
mandates of the federal law. Per §
152.269(C) of this code of ordinances, applicants may seek variances to
technical dimensional requirements that an applicant claims have the effect of
prohibiting the provisions of personal wireless services.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.56 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In additional to a telecommunications application, as maybe
applicable, applications for proposed wireless communications facilities shall
also include maps, reports, and documents as specified by the Zoning
Administrator. At a minimum, this information shall describe the facility with
regard to its proposed location, design, and operation, and, if applicable, a
clear statement that the request is being made as an eligible facilities
request under state and/or federal law.
   (B)   If, as part of review by an outside expert, additional submittal
information is determined to be necessary in order to review the application
for compliance with this chapter, such information shall be required regardless
of the item initially submitted with the application.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.57 NON-CONFORMING SETBACKS FOR EXISTING WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   Wireless support structures that do not meet the minimum required setbacks
from lots that were created after construction of the wireless support
structure shall be deemed conforming with regard to setbacks for the purpose of
§
153.51 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.58 QUALIFIED SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   The purpose of this section is to:
   (A)   Maintain the impacts of small wireless facilities on surrounding areas
by establishing standards for location, structural integrity and compatibility;
   (B)   Encourage the location and collocation of small wireless facilities
equipment on existing structures thereby minimizing new visual, aesthetic and
public safety impacts, and to reduce the need for additional antenna supporting
structures;
   (C)   Encourage coordination between suppliers of small wireless facilities;
   (D)   Accommodate the growing demand for wireless services and the resulting
need for small wireless facilities;
   (E)   Regulate in accordance with all applicable federal and state laws;
   (F)   Establish review procedures to ensure that applications for small
wireless facilities are reviewed and acted upon within a reasonable period of
time or any specific period of time required by law;
   (G)   Protect the aesthetics of the town while meeting the needs of its
citizens and businesses to enjoy the benefits of wireless communications
services; and
   (H)   It is not the purpose or intent of this section to prohibit or have
the effect of prohibiting wireless communications services; unreasonably
discriminate against providers of functionally equivalent wireless
communication services; regulate the placement, construction or modification of
wireless where it is demonstrated that the small wireless facility does or will
comply with applicable FCC regulations; or prohibit or effectively prohibit
collocations or modifications that the town must approve under state or federal
law. The provisions of this section are in addition to, and do not replace, any
obligation an applicant may have under any franchise, licenses, encroachments
or other permits issued by the town.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.59 SITING.
   To protect the aesthetics of the town, to minimize new visuals, aesthetic,
and public safety impacts, and to reduce the need for additional antenna
support structures, the town’s public policy is that small wireless facilities
be located outside the public right-of-way, collocated on existing utility
poles or wireless support structures, concealed and have their accessory
equipment mounted on the utility pole or wireless support structure. This
policy is intended as guidance for development of an application for small
wireless facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.60 APPLICABILITY; COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; EXEMPTIONS; APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The standards established herein shall apply to qualifying small
wireless facilities, qualifying utility poles and qualifying town utility
poles, as defined herein. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to
excuse compliance with, or to be in lieu of, any other requirement of state or
local law, except as specifically provided herein, without limitation, the
provisions of this chapter do not permit placement of small wireless on
privately owned utility poles or wireless support structures, or on private
property without the consent of the property owner or any person who has an
interest in the property.
   (B)   The following categories of small wireless facilities are exempt from
the requirements set forth in §
153.59 of this chapter:
      (1)   Any wireless communications facility below 65 feet when measured
from ground level which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator
licensed by the FCC and used exclusively for amateur radio operations;
      (2)   Satellite dishes;
      (3)   Eligible facilities requests that satisfy the requirements set
forth in §
153.41 of this chapter;
      (4)   Routine maintenance of small wireless facilities; the replacement
of small wireless facilities that are the same size or smaller; or
installation, placement, maintenance or replacement of micro wireless
facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing utility poles
or town utility poles in compliance with all applicable laws or regulations by
or for a communications service provider authorized to occupy the town rights-
of-way and who is remitting taxes under G.S. § 105-164.4(a) or (a)(6).
      (5)   A temporary small wireless facility, upon the declaration of a
state of emergency by federal, state or local government, and a written
determination of public necessity by the town; except that, such facility must
comply with all federal and state requirements and must be removed at the
conclusion of the emergency.
      (6)   Public safety facilities or installations required for public
safety on public or private property, including transmitters, repeaters and
remote cameras so long as the facilities are designed to match the supporting
structure.
      (7)   A small wireless facility located in an interior structure or upon
the site of any stadium or athletic facility; provided that, the small wireless
facility complies with applicable codes.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.61 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Applicants for any qualifying small wireless facilities, qualifying
utility poles and qualifying town utility poles subject to §
153.41 of this chapter shall complete an application as specified in form and
content by the town.
   (B)   If the application is to be approved by the Administrator, an
application shall be deemed complete unless the Administrator provides notice
otherwise in writing to the applicant within 30 days of submission or within
such other time frame as the applicant and Administrator may mutually agree.
The notice shall identify the deficiencies in the application which, if cured,
would make the application complete. The application shall be deemed complete
on resubmission if the additional materials cure the deficiencies identified.
   (C)   The application shall be deemed approved if not approved or denied
within 45 days from the time the application is deemed complete or such other
time frame as the applicant and Administrator may mutually agree.
   (D)   An application may be denied only on the basis that it does not meet
any one of the following:
      (1)   The town’s applicable codes;
      (2)   Local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety,
objective design standards for decorative utility poles, city utility poles or
reasonable and non-discriminatory stealth and concealment requirements,
including screening and landscaping for ground-mounted equipment;
      (3)   Public safety and reasonable spacing requirements concerning the
location of ground- mounted equipment in the right-of-way; and
      (4)   Historic preservation requirements.
   (E)   The Administrator or Board of Adjustment, as applicable must document
the basis for a denial, including the specific code provisions on which the
denial was based and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the
day the application is denied. The applicant may cure the deficiencies
identified and resubmit the application within 30 days of the date on which the
application was resubmitted. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the prior denial.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.62 COLLOCATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES; COLLOCATION; STEALTH AND
CONCEALMENT; SCREENING, LANDSCAPING AND SPACING REQUIREMENTS FOR GROUND
EQUIPMENT; HISTORIC PRESERVATION; APPLICABLE CODES.
   (A)   Collocation of small wireless facilities.
      (1)   Collocation of small wireless facilities on land used as a single-
family residential property or vacant land that is zoned for single-family
development, and any small wireless facility that extends more than ten feet
above the utility pole, town utility pole or wireless support structure on
which it is collocated are subject to §
153.41 of this chapter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, replacement of an existing
streetlight for which the town is financially responsible with a streetlight
capable of including a collocated, concealed wireless facility is permitted on
land used as a single-family residential property or vacant land that is zoned
for single-family development, pursuant to the requirements of §
153.63(B) of this chapter.
      (3)   Each new small wireless facilities shall cause no signal or
frequency interference with public safety facilities or traffic-control devices
and shall not physically interfere with other attachments that may be located
on the existing pole or structure.
      (4)   In order to protect public safety:
         (a)   Small wireless facilities shall cause no signal or frequency
interference with public safety facilities or traffic control devices and shall
not physically interfere with other attachments that may be located on the
existing pole or structure;
         (b)   A structural engineering report prepared by an engineer licensed
by the state, certifying that the host structure is structurally and
mechanically capable of supporting the proposed additional antenna or
configuration of antenna and other equipment, extensions and appurtenances
associated with the installation;
         (c)   A traffic and pedestrian management plan must be submitted for
any installation that requires work in the public right-of-way;
         (d)   No portion of a small wireless facility may be placed in the
public right-of-way in a manner that:
            1.   Obstructs pedestrians or vehicular or bicycle access,
obstructs sight lines or visibility for traffic, traffic signage or signals, or
interferes with access by persons with disabilities. An applicant may be
required to place equipment in vaults to avoid obstructions or interference; or
            2.   Involves placement of pole-mounted equipment when the lowest
point is lower than eight feet above ground level.
         (e)   An abandoned small wireless facility shall be removed within 180
days of abandonment. Should the wireless services provider fail to timely
remove the abandoned wireless facility, the town may cause such wireless
facility to be removed and may recover the actual cost of such removal,
including legal fees, if any, from the wireless service provider. For purposes
of this division (A)(4), a wireless facility shall be deemed abandoned at the
earlier of the date that the wireless service provider indicates that it is
abandoning such facility or the date that is 180 days after the date that such
wireless facility ceases to transmit a signal, unless the wireless services
provider gives the town reasonable evidence that it is diligently working to
place such wireless facility back in service.
   (B)   Objective design standards for small wireless facilities.
      (1)   No advertising signs or logos are permitted on small wireless
facilities.
      (2)   Small wireless facilities shall be blended with the natural
surroundings as much as possible. Colors and materials shall be used that are
compatible with the surrounding area, except when otherwise required by
applicable federal or state regulations. Small wireless facilities shall be
located, designed and/or screened to blend in with the existing natural or
built surroundings to reduce the visual impacts as much as possible, and to be
compatible with neighboring land uses and the character of the community.
   (C)   Stealth and concealment. All small wireless facilities shall be
stealth facilities. Antenna and accessory equipment must be shrouded or
otherwise concealed.
   (D)   Screening, landscaping and spacing requirements for ground equipment.
Ground equipment shall be screened, to the extent possible, with evergreen
plantings or other acceptable alternatives approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (E)   Historic preservation. Small wireless facilities located in a
designated historic district or on property designated as a landmark (pursuant
to G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, 3(c)) shall be required to obtain a certificate of
appropriateness, and must be completely concealed from view. Additionally, the
location of such facilities shall not have an impact upon the historic
materials or nature of the structure.
   (F)   Applicable codes. Small wireless facilities must meet all applicable
municipal codes.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.63 EXISTING UTILITY POLES AND TOWN UTILITY POLES ASSOCIATED WITH SMALL
WIRELESS FACILITIES; PUBLIC SAFETY; OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SUPPORT
STRUCTURES; STEALTH AND CONCEALMENT; HISTORIC PRESERVATION; APPLICABLE CODES.
   (A)   Existing utility poles and town utility poles associated with small
wireless facilities. The maintenance, modification, operation or replacement of
existing qualifying utility poles and qualifying town utility poles associated
with small wireless facilities are subject to the following requirements:
height. Each modified or replacement utility pole or town utility pole shall
not exceed:
      (1)   Forty feet above the ground level on property zoned for or used as
single-family residential property, or in the right-of-way adjacent to such
property, where existing utilities are installed underground; or
      (2)   Fifty feet above ground level on all other property. Each new small
wireless facility shall not extend more than ten feet above the associated
utility pole, town utility pole or wireless support structure on which it is
collocated.
   (B)   Small wireless facilities. All requirements of this division (B) apply
to small wireless facilities located on a utility pole, town utility pole or
wireless support structure.
   (C)   Public safety. In order to protect public safety:
      (1)   No replacement utility poles or town utility poles associated with
a small wireless facility are permitted in the clear zone as defined in the
town’s Standard Specifications and Details Manual unless such replacement pole
is breakaway rated;
      (2)   No portion of a utility pole or town utility pole associated with a
small wireless facility may be placed in the public right-of-way in a manner
that:
         (a)   Results in the obstruction of pedestrians or vehicular or
bicycle access, or of sight lines or visibility for traffic, traffic signage or
signals, or interferes with access by persons with disabilities. An applicant
may be required to place equipment in vaults to avoid obstructions or
interference; or
         (b)   Involves placement of pole-mounted equipment lowest point is
lower than eight feet above ground level.
   (D)   objective design standards for support structures. Utility poles or
town utility poles associated with a small wireless facility shall be blended
with the natural surroundings as much as possible. Colors and materials shall
be used that are compatible with the surrounding area, except when otherwise
required by applicable federal or state regulations. Utility poles or town
utility poles associated with a small wireless facility shall be located,
designed and/or screened to blend in with the existing natural or built
surroundings to reduce the visual impacts as much as possible, and to be
compatible with neighboring land uses and the character of the community.
   (E)   Stealth and concealment. All small wireless facilities shall be
stealth facilities. Antenna and accessory equipment must be shrouded or
otherwise concealed.
   (F)   Historic preservation. Utility poles or town utility poles associated
with a small wireless facility located in a designated historic district or on
property designated as a landmark (pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, § 3C)
shall be required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness.
   (G)   Applicable codes. Utility poles and town utility poles associated with
a small wireless facility must meet applicable codes.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.64 NEW UTILITIES; STANDARD CONDITIONS.
   (A)   New utility associated with small wireless facilities. In the event a
new pole is proposed, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Unless a new pole replaces an existing pole in substantially the
same location, to the extent practicable, poles shall be installed at least 300
feet from any existing or proposed pole. Any wireless service providers
desiring to install poles less than 300 feet apart or desiring to install a new
pole within 300 feet of an existing pole shall demonstrate why such placement
is necessary.
      (2)   Poles shall be designed pursuant to the town’s standards or the
applicable utility’s standard and function as street light poles, utility poles
or traffic signal poles in consultation with the town or the applicable
utility, and shall be incorporated into the applicable utility or signaling
system.
      (3)   All requirements, standards and limitations of §§
153.62(B) and
153.63(B) of this chapter apply to new utility pole installations.
   (B)   Standard conditions.
      (1)   Applicants must obtain all other required permits, authorizations,
approvals, agreements and declarations that may be required for installation,
modification and/or operation of a proposed facility under federal, state, or
local law, rules, regulations, including, but not limited to, encroachment
agreements and FCC approvals. An approval issued under this section is not in
lieu of any other permit required under
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances or town code, not is it a franchise, license
or other authorization to occupy the public right-of-way, or a license, lease
or agreement authorizing occupancy of any other public or private property. It
does not create a vested right in occupying any particular location, and an
applicant may be required to move and remove facilities at its expense
consistent with other provisions of applicable law. An approval issued in
error, based on incomplete or false information submitted by an applicant or
that conflicts with the provisions of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances is not valid. No person(s) may maintain a
small wireless facility in place unless required state or federal
authorization.
      (2)   All small wireless facilities and related equipment, including, but
not limited to, fences, cabinets, poles and landscaping, shall be maintained in
good working condition over the life of the use. This shall include keeping the
structures maintained to the visual standards established at the time of
approval. The small wireless facility shall remain free from trash, debris,
litter, graffiti and other forms of vandalism. Any damage shall be repaired as
soon as practicable, and in no instance more than 30 calendar days from the
date of notification by the town. In public rights-of-way, damaged or
deteriorated components must be corrected within five business days of
notification.
      (3)   The property owner(s) or applicant shall submit a certification
letter from a state-certified land surveyor or licensed engineer which verifies
that structure height complies with the approved development plan.
      (4)   The applicant or owner(s) shall maintain onsite at the facility
contact information for all parties responsible for maintenance of the
facility.
      (5)   Small wireless facilities, whether operating alone or in
conjunction with other facilities, shall not generate radio frequency emissions
in excess of the standards established by the FCC.
      (6)   After written notice to the applicant and/or owner(s), the town may
require the relocation, at the applicant/owner(s) expense, of any small
wireless facility, and the associated utility pole, connected to a town utility
pole, or wireless support structure on which it is collocated, located in the
public right-of-way, as necessary for maintenance or reconfiguration of the
right-of-way or for other public projects, or take any other action or
combination of actions necessary to protect the health and welfare of the town.
      (7)   Collocation or modification of small wireless facilities on an
existing non-conforming wireless support structure or base station shall not be
construed as an expansion, enlargement or increase in intensity of a non-
conforming structure and/or use; provided that, the collocation or modification
constitutes an eligible facilities request.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.65 NEW LOTS; DISTANCE FROM EXISTING WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   When creating lots from an existing lot or parcel that contains a wireless
support structure (stealth or non-stealth), the new lot(s) shall be located no
closer to the existing structure that the applicable setback requirements
provided in §§
153.62(B) and
153.63(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties and remedies for the violation of this chapter shall be as
provided in §
152.999 of this code of ordinances. Should a tower collapse outside of the
identified fall zone, a penalty of $5,000 shall be assessed.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2019)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section             Code Section
1A-1, Rule 4             110.40
Ch. 7A                   150.28
12-3                     10.02
12-4                     10.02
                         33.07;
                         91.99;
14-4                     93.99;
                         110.99;
                         152.999
                         70.99;
14-4(a)                  73.99;
                         74.99
14-86.1                  31.22
14-127                   Ch. 95
14-202.10                112.02;
                         152.010
15A-401 et seq.          31.20
15A-402                  31.20
Ch. 18B                  98.01
18B-101                  98.01
20-4.01                  70.01;
                         74.01
20-4.01(23)              73.01
Ch. 20, Art. 9A          74.05
20-141                   71.01
20-144                   71.01
20-145                   71.01
20-153                   70.07
20-158                   70.07
20-161 through 20-163    Ch. 72
20-162                   72.02
20-169                   71.01;
                         Ch. 72
20-172                   70.07
20-219.11                90.09
44A-1 through 44A-6      90.11
47-30                    151.23;
                         151.28
Ch. 74, Art. 7           152.033
90-112(4)                31.22
Ch. 105                  110.61
106-581.1                152.010
Ch. 113A                 151.49
121-5                    110.39;
                         110.60
Ch. 130A, Art. 9         150.05
130A-290(a)(6)           150.05
130A-290(a)(35)          150.05
130A-290(a)(36)          150.05
136-102.6                151.46
136-128                  152.106
136-141 et seq.          90.14
136-143                  90.14
Ch. 143, Art. 21, part 6 150.01
                         30.02;
Ch. 143, Art. 33C        30.03;
                         31.04;
                         152.264
143-143.15               150.41
143-145                  152.010
143-318.11               30.02;
                         30.23
143-354                  50.089
153A-10                  152.010
Ch. 159                  30.22
160-1-2                  152.010
Ch. 160A, Art. 8         150.01
160A-1(2)                152.010
160A-1(5)                152.010
160A-69                  30.17
160A-70                  30.17
160A-75                  30.21
                         73.02;
160A-174                 74.02;
                         94.01
                         110.99;
160A-175                 94.01;
                         114.99;
                         152.999
160A-175(f)              73.99;
                         74.99
160A-183                 130.01
160A-184                 Ch. 93
160A-188                 91.08
160A-189                 130.01
160A-190                 130.01
160A-192                 94.01
160A-193                 Ch. 94;
                         94.01
160A-194(a)              73.02
160A-207                 110.61
160A-216                 32.01
160A-217                 32.01
160A-218                 32.01
160A-219                 32.01
160A-281 et seq.         31.20
160A-296                 Ch. 72;
                         Ch. 95
160A-300                 Ch. 70;
                         Ch. 71
160A-300.6               74.02
160A-301                 Ch. 72
160A-303                 90.02
160A-303.2               90.02
160A-307                 95.31
160A-311                 113.01
160A-312                 Ch. 50
                         50.050;
160A-317                 50.066;
                         50.067
160A-360                 31.20
160A-435 to 160A-438     Ch. 92
Ch. 160D, Chapter 1-9(b) 152.009
Ch. 160D, Art. 2         152.300
Ch. 160D, Art. 7         150.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 10        152.010
Ch. 160D, Art. 11        150.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 13        150.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 87        152.001
160D-1-2                 152.010
160D-1-8                 152.010
160D-3-1                 152.010
160D-8-2                 152.010
160D-9-3                 152.010
160D-9-3(c)              152.230
160D-201                 151.02;
                         151.99
160D-406                 152.010
160D-803                 151.20;
                         151.21
160D-807                 151.99
160D-907                 152.010;
                         152.028
160D-931                 153.41
160D-933                 153.41
160D-934                 153.41
163-227.2                152.117
Ch. 166A                 33.04
168-4.2                  114.01
                         
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code 2021 Code
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.12      10.12
10.13      10.13
10.14      10.14
10.15      10.15
10.16      10.16
10.17      10.17
11.01      10.99
30.07      30.17
30.08      30.17
30.11      30.21
32.30      31.01
32.31      31.02
32.32      31.03
32.33      31.04
32.34      31.05
32.35      31.06
32.36      31.07
32.37      31.08
33.01      31.20
33.02      31.21
33.03      31.22
33.04      31.23
35.01      33.01
35.02      33.02
35.03      33.03
35.04      33.04
35.05      33.05
35.06      33.06
35.07      33.07
50.001     50.001
50.002     50.002
50.003     50.003
50.004     50.004
50.005     50.005
50.020     50.020
50.021     50.021
50.022     50.022
50.023     50.025
50.024     50.026
50.025     50.028
50.027     50.030
50.028     50.031
50.029     50.032
50.030     50.033
50.031     50.034
50.032     50.035
50.033     50.036
50.050     50.050
50.051     50.051
50.052     50.052
50.053     50.053
50.065     50.065
50.066     50.066
50.067     50.067
50.068     50.068
50.069     50.069
50.070     50.070
50.071     50.071
50.085     50.085
50.086     50.086
50.087     50.087
50.088     50.088
50.089     50.089
50.090     50.090
50.091     50.091
50.092     50.092
50.093     50.093
50.094     50.094
50.095     50.095
50.096     50.096
50.097     50.097
50.098     50.098
50.110     50.110
50.111     50.111
50.112     50.112
70.01      70.01
70.05      70.02
70.06      70.03
70.07      70.04
70.08      70.05
70.09      70.06
70.20      70.07
71.01      71.01
71.03      71.02
71.04      71.03
72.01      72.01
72.02      72.02
72.03      72.03
72.04      72.04
72.05      72.05
72.06      72.06
72.08      72.07
72.11      72.08
72.12      72.09
72.25      72.20
72.26      72.21
72.27      72.22
72.28      72.23
72.99      72.99
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.05      90.05
90.06      90.06
90.07      90.07
90.08      90.08
90.09      90.09
90.10      90.10
90.11      90.11
90.12      90.12
90.13      90.13
90.14      90.14
90.15      90.15
91.01      91.01
91.02      91.02
91.03      91.03
91.04      91.04
91.05      91.05
91.06      91.06
91.07      91.07
91.08      91.08
91.99      91.99
92.04      92.01
93.01      93.01
93.02      93.02
93.99      93.99
94.01      94.01
94.02      94.02
94.03      94.03
94.04      94.04
94.15      94.15
94.16      94.16
94.17      94.17
94.18      94.18
94.19      94.19
94.20      94.20
94.21      94.21
94.37      94.35
94.38      94.36
94.39      94.37
94.50      94.50;
           94.99
94.51      94.51
94.52      94.52
94.53      94.53
94.54      94.54
94.55      94.55
95.03      95.01
95.04      95.02
95.07      95.03
95.20      95.15
95.22      95.16
95.23      95.17
95.24      95.18
95.35      95.30
95.36      95.31
95.37      95.32
95.38      95.33
96.01      96.01
97.01      97.01
97.02      97.02
97.03      97.03
97.04      97.04
97.05      97.05
97.06      97.06
97.07      97.07
97.08      97.08
97.99      97.99
Ch. 98     98.01
110.01     110.01
110.02     110.02
110.15     110.15
110.16     110.16
110.17     110.17
110.18     110.18
110.19     110.19
110.35     110.30
110.36     110.31
110.37     110.32
110.38     110.33
110.40     110.34
110.41     110.35
110.42     110.36
110.43     110.37
110.44     110.38
110.45     110.39
110.46     110.40
110.60     110.55
110.61     110.56
110.62     110.57
110.63     110.58
110.64     110.59
110.65     110.60
110.66     110.61
110.99     110.99
111.01     111.01
111.15     111.02
111.16     111.02
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.02
112.03     112.03
112.04     112.04
112.05     112.05
112.06     112.06
112.07     112.07
112.08     112.08
112.09     112.09
112.10     112.10
112.11     112.11
112.12     112.12
112.13     112.13
112.14     112.14
112.15     112.15
112.16     112.16
112.17     112.17
112.18     112.18
112.19     112.19
130.03     130.01
130.04     130.02
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     151.01—
                     151.07;
                     151.21—
-        - -         151.31;
                     151.45—
                     151.49;
                     151.99
                     151.21;
                     151.24;
                     151.25;
-        2-3-1986    151.28;
                     151.31;
                     151.45;
                     151.46
-        2-8-1988    31.22
                     151.05;
                     151.20;
-        5-2-1988    151.21;
                     151.22;
                     151.23
-        10-2-1989   72.99
-        12-4-1989   111.01
-        1-8-1990    72.02
-        10-1-1990   152.072
                     151.05;
-        8-5-1991    151.24;
                     151.25
-        11-4-1991   151.05;
                     151.46
-        3-16-1992   152.210
-        6-25-1992   151.23
-        3-1-1993    151.46
-        2-6-1997    50.022;
                     50.026
-        5-12-1997   152.245
                     94.02—
                     94.04;
                     94.18;
-        7-14-1997   94.35;
                     94.37;
                     94.50;
                     94.51;
                     94.53
                     50.021;
                     50.026;
                     50.051;
-        3-24-1998   50.065—
                     50.068;
                     50.095;
                     50.112
-        5-11-1998   95.31—
                     95.33
-        8-10-1998   93.01;
                     93.02
-        10-12-1998  95.31—
                     95.33
-        3-13-2000   112.01—
                     112.19
-        10-9-2000   31.01—
                     31.08
-        10-9-2000   50.028
                     151.05;
                     151.23;
-        11-13-2000  151.24;
                     151.28;
                     151.46
-        12-11-2000  93.02
-        3-12-2001   50.034;
                     50.035
-        3-27-2001   151.24
                     93.02;
-        9-8-2003    94.51;
                     94.53;
                     94.54
                     152.001—
                     152.009;
                     152.020—
                     152.035;
                     152.050—
                     152.057;
                     152.070—
                     152.073;
                     152.085;
                     152.086;
                     152.088;
                     152.090;
                     152.105—
                     152.118;
                     152.130—
                     152.137;
                     152.150—
-        3-14-2005   152.170;
                     152.185—
                     152.190;
                     152.205—
                     152.230;
                     152.240—
                     152.246;
                     152.260—
                     152.270;
                     152.285—
                     152.287;
                     152.300—
                     152.303;
                     152.315—
                     152.322;
                     152.335;
                     152.336;
                     152.999
-        5-9-2005    152.028;
                     152.212
-        7-11-2005   152.136
-        11-13-2006  152.009
-        2-12-2007   152.010;
                     152.028
-        4-9-2007    151.05;
                     151.20
                     152.010;
-        4-9-2007    152.189;
                     152.210
-        4-13-2007   152.028
                     152.029;
-        5-14-2007   152.031—
                     152.033
                     152.010;
-        6-11-2007   152.028;
                     152.072;
                     152.088
-        10- -2007   32.01
                     152.010;
-        10-16-2007  152.028;
                     152.113;
                     152.207
-        2-11-2008   152.010
-        4-14-2008   152.223
                     152.010;
                     152.033;
-        7-14-2008   152.072;
                     152.113;
                     152.136
                     150.01—
                     150.14;
                     150.25—
-        12-8-2008   150.28;
                     150.40—
                     150.45;
                     150.99
-        12-8-2008   152.010;
                     152.130
-        2-9-2009    152.010;
                     152.089
                     152.027;
-        7-13-2009   152.115;
                     152.224
                     152.008;
-        9-14-2009   152.010;
                     152.106;
                     152.246
-        4-12-2010   152.033
-        12-21-2010  152.010;
                     152.218
2011-    3-14-2011   113.01;
                     113.99
-        7-11-2011   94.37
                     152.106—
                     152.108;
-        8-8-2011    152.110;
                     152.113;
                     152.118;
                     152.999
                     152.106;
-        10-10-2011  152.108;
                     152.110;
                     152.113
-        6-11-2012   152.010;
                     152.225
-        7-8-2012    152.999
-        7-9-2012    70.09
-        9-10-2012   152.010;
                     152.225
-        10-8-2012   152.010;
                     152.106
-        2-11-2013   152.010
                     152.150—
-        2-13-2013   152.170;
                     152.999
-        3-11-2013   152.010
                     152.150—
-        5-1-2013    152.170;
                     152.999
-        5-13-2013   152.028;
                     152.051
-        10-14-2013  152.269;
                     152.270
-        5- -2014    152.287
-        5-12-2014   152.088
-        7-13-2015   152.085;
                     152.134
-        9-14-2015   152.010;
                     152.027
-        8-8-2016    96.01
                     152.001—
                     152.010;
                     152.020—
                     152.035;
                     152.050—
                     152.057;
                     152.070—
                     152.073;
                     152.085;
                     152.086;
                     152.088;
                     152.090;
                     152.105—
                     152.118;
                     152.130—
                     152.137;
                     152.150—
-        10-10-2016  152.170;
                     152.185—
                     152.190;
                     152.205—
                     152.230;
                     152.240—
                     152.246;
                     152.260—
                     152.270;
                     152.285—
                     152.287;
                     152.300—
                     152.303;
                     152.315—
                     152.322;
                     152.335;
                     152.336;
                     152.999
-        12-12-2016  152.027;
                     152.088
-        6-12-2017   152.010
                     152.106;
-        7-10-2017   152.116;
                     152.228
-        9-11-2017   152.106
                     73.01—
-        - -2018     73.11;
                     73.99
                     74.01—
-        - -2018     74.07;
                     74.99
-        5- -2018    152.010
Res.  - -2019v    152.010,
                     152.088
-        2-11-2019   152.303
                     152.001—
                     152.010;
                     152.020—
                     152.035;
                     152.050—
                     152.057;
                     152.070—
                     152.073;
                     152.085—
                     152.090;
                     152.105—
                     152.118;
                     152.130—
                     152.137;
                     152.150—
                     152.170;
-        3-14-2019   152.185—
                     152.190;
                     152.205—
                     152.230;
                     152.240—
                     152.246;
                     152.260—
                     152.270;
                     152.285—
                     152.287;
                     152.300—
                     152.303;
                     152.315—
                     152.322;
                     152.335;
                     152.336;
                     152.999
                     152.229;
-        8-12-2019   152.242;
                     152.270
                     153.01—
                     153.13;
                     153.25—
-        8-12-2019   153.28;
                     153.40—
                     153.65;
                     153.99
-        7-13-2020   152.350 -
                     152.355
                     70.35—
-        2-8-2021    70.59;
                     70.99
                     114.01—
-        2-8-2021    114.08;
                     114.99
-        - -2022     72.10
Res.     - -2022     152.028,
                     152.029
-        8-8-2022    152.035
                    
 
