BEAUFORT COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2019 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ordinance passed 11-5-2018; and
State Legislation current through 2018 Legislative Service #5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, 3rd Floor   
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Beaufort County, North Carolina,
shall be designated as the “Code of Beaufort County, North Carolina”, and may
be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the County of
Beaufort, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Beaufort County, North Carolina.
      DAY. A calendar day.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any path way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto within the
county and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way or area between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent, or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the county.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section              
of the Code of Ordinances, Beaufort County, North Carolina, is hereby amended
as follows...”. The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Beaufort County, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapters, or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.19  CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution providing for the levy of
taxes or for an annual budget, or prescribing salaries for county officers and
employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit, or
other right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing, or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed, or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map; and
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature.
   (B)   And all such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.20  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of County
Commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of County Commissioners
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [such as,
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate division;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles of sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section, or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections      to     ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
Statutory reference:
Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the county an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in this code of ordinances the doing of an act is
required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation
of the provision of this code of ordinances or of any such ordinance shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than
30 days for each separate violation. Each day any violation of this code or any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense, unless otherwise
specified.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions within this code of
ordinances or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100 for each day the violation
continues. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after
being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the county in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) above, any provision of
this code or other ordinance of the county may be enforced by any one or more
of the remedies authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing counties to punish ordinance violations as misdemeanors, see
G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
30.01   Monthly charge for telephone subscribers for enhanced 911 service
§ 30.01  MONTHLY CHARGE FOR TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS FOR ENHANCED 911 SERVICE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a monthly charge upon each exchange access
facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange access lines are
located in the county, excepting those subscribers located within the
incorporated limits of the City of Washington.
   (B)   The effective date of imposition and collection of the charges
provided herein shall be the one hundred and twenty-first day after the
adoption of this section.
   (C)   The definitions, procedures for payment and collection,
administration, and all other provisions of G.S. Ch. 62A are incorporated
herein by reference.
   (D)   The monthly enhanced 911 service charge shall be $1 per month.
   (E)   Any person who intentionally calls the 911 number for purposes other
than obtaining public safety assistance commits a misdemeanor.
   (F)   This section shall be effective upon its adoption.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 31:  COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
31.01   Membership and vacancies
   
31.02   Organization, rules, meetings, and records
   
31.03   General powers and duties
   
31.04   Basic studies
   
31.05   Comprehensive plan
   
31.06   Zoning ordinance
   
31.07   Subdivision regulations
   
31.08   Public facilities
   
31.09   Annual report of activities and analysis of expenditures
   
31.10   Advisory Council and special committees
   
31.11   Effective date
Recreation Committee
   
31.25   Creation, name, and number of members
   
31.26   Committee; powers and duties
   
31.27   Appointment of the Committee
   
31.28   Composition
   
31.29   Length of appointment
   
31.30   Meetings
   
31.31   Attendance of members
   
31.32   Compensation
   
31.33   Officers
   
31.34   Officers’ duties
   
31.35   Committees
   
31.36   By-laws
Cross-reference:
   County EMS System Plan Oversight Committee, see
Ch. 112
   Subdivision, see
Ch. 153
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.01  MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES.
   The Planning Board shall consist of five members. One of the initial members
shall be appointed for a term of one year; one for two years; one for three
years; one for four years; and one for five years. Their successors shall be
appointed for terms of five years. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than
expiration of terms shall be filled as they occur for the period of the
unexpired term. Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Board is considered
a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.02  ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS, AND RECORDS.
   Within 30 days after appointment, the Planning Board shall meet and elect a
Chairperson and create and fill such offices as it may determine. The term of
the Chairperson and other officers shall be one year, with eligibility for re-
election. The Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and shall
keep a record of its members’ attendance and of its resolutions, discussions,
findings, and recommendations, which record shall be a public record. The Board
shall hold at least one meeting monthly, and all of its meetings shall be open
to the public. There shall be a quorum of three members for the purpose of
taking any official action required by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.03  GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general:
      (1)   To acquire and maintain in current form such basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions, and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   To prepare and from time to time, amend, and revise, a
comprehensive and coordinated plan for the physical development of the area;
      (3)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (4)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of County Commissioners
ordinances promoting orderly development along the lines indicated in the
comprehensive plan;
      (5)   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area;
      (6)   To keep the Board of County Commissioners and the general public
informed and advised as to these matters; and
      (7)   To perform any other duties which may lawfully be assigned to it.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Board may conduct such public hearings as may be
required to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment, and
maintenance of the comprehensive plan. Before adopting any such plan, it shall
hold at least one public hearing thereon.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall have the power to promote public interest
in and an understanding of its recommendations, and to that end it may publish
and distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ such other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
      (3)   Members of employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by
the Planning Board, may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning
institutes or hearings upon pending planning legislation, and the Planning
Board may, by formal and affirmative vote, pay, within the Planning Board’s
budget, the reasonable traveling expenses incident to such attendance.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.04  BASIC STUDIES.
   (A)   As background for its comprehensive plan and any ordinances it may
prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of human-
made and natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends, and
present conditions with respect to population, property values, the economic
base of the area, land use, and other information as is important or likely to
be important in determining the amount, direction, and kind of development to
be expected in the area and its various parts.
   (B)   In addition, the Planning Board may make, cause to be made, or obtain
special studies on the location, condition, and adequacy of specific
facilities, which may include but are not limited to studios of housing;
commercial and industrial facilities; parks, playgrounds, and recreational
facilities; public and private utilities; and traffic, transportation, and
parking facilities.
   (C)   All county officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning
Board such available records or information as it may require in its work. The
Board or its agents may, in the performance of its official duties, enter upon
lands and make examinations or surveys and maintain necessary monuments
thereon.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.05  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The comprehensive plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts, and
descriptive matter, shall be and show the Planning Board’s recommendations to
the Board of County Commissioners for the development of said territory,
including, among other things, the general location, character, and extent of
streets, bridges, boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation
fields, and other public ways, grounds, and open spaces; the general location
and extent of public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately
owned or operated, for water, light, sanitation, transportation, communication,
power, and other purposes; the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing,
vacating, abandonment, change of use, or extension of any of the foregoing
ways, buildings, grounds, open spaces, property, utilities, or terminals; the
most desirable pattern of land use within the area, including areas for
residential uses, for farming and forestry, for manufacturing and industrial
uses, for commercial uses, for recreational uses, for open spaces, and for
mixed uses.
   (B)   The plan and any ordinances or other measures to effectuate it shall
be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated,
adjusted, and harmonious development of the county which will, in accordance
with present and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, and the
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development; including, among other things, adequate provision for light and
air, the promotion of the healthful and convenient distribution of population,
the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and efficient
expenditure of public funds, and the adequate provision of public utilities,
services, and other public requirements.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.06  ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the Board of County
Commissioners for its consideration and possible adoption a zoning ordinance
for the control of the height, area, bulk, location, and use of buildings and
premises in the area, in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 153A as
amended.
   (B)   The Planning Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for
amendment of the zoning ordinance, based upon its studies and comprehensive
plan. In addition, it shall review and make recommendations to the Board of
County Commissioners concerning all proposed amendments to the zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.07  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall review, from time to time, the need for
regulations for the control of land subdivision in the area and submit to the
Board of County Commissioners its recommendations, if any, for adoption or
revision of said regulations.
   (B)   In accordance with such regulations, the Planning Board shall review
and make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners concerning all
proposed plats of land subdivision.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.08  PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall review with county officials and report as
recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners upon the extent, location,
and design of all public structures, and facilities, and on the acquisition and
disposal of public properties.
   (B)   However, in the absence of a recommendation for the Planning Board,
the Board of County Commissioners may, if it deems wise, after the expiration
of 30 days from the date on which the question has been submitted in writing to
the Planning Board for review and recommendation, take final action.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.09  ANNUAL REPORT OF ACTIVITIES AND ANALYSIS OF EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall, in May of each year, submit in writing to
the Board of County Commissioners a written report of its activities, an
analysis of the expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, and, for
review and approval, its requested budget of funds needed for operation during
the ensuing fiscal year.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Board is authorized to receive contributions from
private agencies and organizations or from individuals, in addition to any sums
which may be appropriated for its use by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   It may accept and disburse such contributions for special purposes
or projects, subject to any specific conditions which it deems acceptable,
whether or not such projects are included in the approved budget.
   (C)   The Planning Board is authorized to appoint such committees and
employees, and to authorize such expenditures, as it may see fit, subject to
limitations of funds provided for the Planning Board by the Board of County
Commissioners in the county’s annual budget.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.10  ADVISORY COUNCIL AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may seek the establishment of an unofficial
Advisory Council and may cooperate with this Council to the end that its
investigations and plans may receive the fullest consideration, but the Board
may not delegate to such Advisory Council any of its official prerogatives.
   (B)   The Planning Board may set up special committees to assist it in the
study of specific questions and problems.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 31.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect as an ordinance of the
county from and after the date of its adoption by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1974; Res. passed 9-3-1974)
RECREATION COMMITTEE
§ 31.25  CREATION, NAME, AND NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created a Recreation Committee composed of six citizens of
the county, to be known as the “County Recreation Committee”.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.26  COMMITTEE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Recreation Committee shall serve as the advisory body for the
county. The Committee shall suggest policies to the County Manager and the
Board of Commissioners, within its powers and responsibilities as stated in
this subchapter. The Committee shall serve as a liaison between the County
Manager, the Commissioners, and citizens of the county. The Committee shall
consult with and advise the County Manager and the Commissioners in matters
affecting recreation policies, program, personnel, finances, and the
acquisition and disposal of lands and properties related to the total community
recreation program, and to its long-range, projected program for recreation.
   (B)   The Recreation Committee shall assume duties for recreation purposes
and to make the following recommendations as follows:
      (1)   For the establishment of a system of supervised recreation for the
unit;
      (2)   To set apart for use as parks, playgrounds, recreation centers,
water areas, or other recreation areas and structures, any lands or buildings
owned by or leased to the unit, and for approval by the unit’s authorized body,
and may suggest improvements of such lands and for the construction and for the
equipping and staffing of such buildings and structures as may be necessary to
the recreation program within those funds allocated;
      (3)   Advise in the acquisition of lands and structures through gifts,
purchase, lease or loan, or by condemnation by the unit as provided by G.S. Ch.
40A (eminent domain), and as approved by the County Commissioners;
      (4)   Advise in the acceptance by the unit of any grant, gift, bequest,
or donation, and personal or real property offered or made available for
recreation purposes and which is judged to be of present or possible future use
for recreation. Any gift, bequest of money, or other property; any grant or
devise of real property so acquired shall be held, by the unit, used and
finally disposed of in accordance with the terms under which such grant, gift,
or devise is made and accepted; and/or
      (5)   Advise in the construction, equipping, operation, and maintenance
of parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and all buildings and structures
necessary or useful, and will advise in regard to other recreation facilities
that are owned or controlled by the unit or leased or loaned to the unit.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.27  APPOINTMENT OF THE COMMITTEE.
   Each member of the Recreation Committee shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.28  COMPOSITION.
   The County Manager shall serve as an ex-officio member of the Recreation
Committee. The ex-officio member will not have a vote on items coming before
the Recreation Committee.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.29  LENGTH OF APPOINTMENT.
   Each member shall be appointed for a three-year term. Initial appointments
shall be arranged so that approximately one-third of the terms will expire each
year.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.30  MEETINGS.
   Recreation Committee meetings shall be held on a monthly basis. The
Chairperson of the  Committee or, in his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson
may call a special meeting of the Committee at any time by giving each member
24-hour notice. Special meetings will be scheduled upon request by four or more
Committee members. A quorum of the Committee shall be in attendance before
action of an official nature can be taken. A quorum is at least one more than
the number absent of the appointed members.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.31  ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   An appointed member who misses more than three consecutive regular meetings
loses his or her status as a member of the Recreation Committee until
reappointed or replaced by the governing body of the unit. Absences due to
sickness, death, or other emergencies of like nature shall be regarded as
approved absences and shall not affect the member’s status on the Committee
except that in the event of a long illness, or other such cause for prolonged
absence, the member may be replaced.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.32  COMPENSATION.
   Recreation Committee members shall serve without monetary compensation.
Members shall be reimbursed for travel and subsistence to professional
recreation meetings, conferences, and workshops, with such reimbursement being
made in compliance with the general policies of the unit.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.33  OFFICERS.
   (A)   There shall be a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Recreation
Committee. An annual election of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be
held by the Committee members and shall occur at the regular monthly meeting in
July. Officers shall serve for one year from election with eligibility for re-
election. New officers shall take office at the subsequent regular meeting in
August.
   (B)   In the event an officer’s appointment to the Recreation Committee is
terminated, a replacement to this office shall be elected by the Committee,
from its membership, and at the meeting following the termination. The County
Manager shall serve as Secretary of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.34  OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   (A)   The Recreation Committee Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and
sign all documents relative to action taken by the Committee. The Chairperson
shall appoint all subcommittees including a nominating committee composed of
two Committee members. A nominating committee shall be appointed at least 30
days prior to the July meeting.
   (B)   When the Chairperson is absent, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform the
duties of the Chairperson. When both the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson are
absent, a temporary Chairperson shall be elected by those members who are
present.
   (C)   (1)   The County Manager shall serve as Secretary to the Committee. He
or she may delegate all or part of these duties to another county employee with
the approval of the Committee but shall hold the office of Secretary and shall
be held responsible for the satisfactory accomplishment of the secretarial
duties.
   (2)   The Secretary shall mail to all members copies of official reports,
and the official minutes of all regular and special meetings, prior the next
scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.35  COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Executive Committee shall consist of the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, Secretary/ Manager, and the representative from the governing body
of the unit.
   (B)   (1)   The Committee Chairperson is authorized to appoint such
committees as, in the opinion of the Committee, are needed. Standing committee
suggestions are as follows:
         (a)   Program and activities;
         (b)   Areas and structures;
         (c)   Budget;
         (d)   Personnel; and/or
         (e)   Policies and procedures.
      (2)   Temporary and project committees shall be appointed as needed.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 31.36  BY-LAWS.
   Operational policies and procedures may be incorporated into a set of by-
laws as developed and approved by the Committee in line with this subchapter
and the policies of the unit.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Res. passed 8-4-1975)
CHAPTER 32:  PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Statement of purpose
   
32.002   Limitations
   
32.003   Coverage
   
32.004   Equal opportunity
   
32.005   Official and employee copies
   
32.006   Adoption and amendment
   
32.007   Forms
   
32.008   Clarification of procedures
Classification
   
32.020   Purpose
   
32.021   Classification
Position Management
   
32.035   Recruitment
   
32.036   Selection
   
32.037   Appointment
   
32.038   Probation
   
32.039   Transfers
   
32.040   Voluntary separation from service
   
32.041   Involuntary separation from service
   
32.042   Separation procedure
Incompatible Activities
   
32.055   Purpose
   
32.056   Gifts, gratuities, or loans
   
32.057   Political activities
   
32.058   Outside employment
   
32.059   Conflict of interest
   
32.060   Employment of relatives
Discipline
   
32.075   Coverage
   
32.076   Types of actions requiring discipline
   
32.077   First offense suspension, dismissal, or demotion
   
32.078   Progressive discipline
   
32.079   Purpose
   
32.080   Procedure of appeal
   
32.081   Sheriff’s Department and Register of Deed’s Office
   
32.082   Social Services, Health, and Emergency Management employees
Benefits
   
32.095   Holidays
   
32.096   Personal leave
   
32.097   Sick leave
   
32.098   Military leave
   
32.099   Civic leave
   
32.100   Leave of absence without pay
   
32.101   Worker’s compensation leave
   
32.102   Insurance
   
32.103   Retirement
   
32.104   Travel and expense allowances
Compensation Plan
   
32.115   Purpose
   
32.116   Administration
   
32.117   Compensation
   
32.118   Overtime
   
32.119   Deductions
   
32.120   Pay plan
   
32.121   Amounts due employer when on leave of absence without pay
   
32.122   Pay at separation
   
Appendix A: Certificate of Receipt
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to promote understanding, cooperation, equal
treatment, and efficiency.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.002  LIMITATIONS.
   This is not a contract of employment. Any individual may voluntarily leave
employment upon proper notice and may be terminated by the employer at any time
for any reason. Any oral or written statements or promises to the contrary are
hereby expressly disavowed and should not be relied upon by any prospective or
existing employee. The contents of this chapter are subject to change at any
time at the discretion of the employer.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.003  COVERAGE.
   (A)   These policies apply to all employees of the county unless exceptions
are noted.
   (B)   The Sheriff and Register of Deeds have the exclusive right to hire,
discharge, and supervise the employees in their respective offices pursuant to
state statutes.
   (C)   County Agricultural Extension Service employees are subject to the
personnel rules and regulations of the State Agricultural Extension Service,
except that these employees shall observe the office hours, workdays, and
holidays in §§
32.095 through
32.104.
   (D)   Health, Social Services, and Emergency Management employees are
subject to the county personnel policy with respect to vacation leave, sick
leave, hours of work, holidays, pay plan administration, travel procedures, and
overtime. In other areas, these employees are subject to the North Carolina
Human Resources Act, being G.S. §§ 126-1 et seq.
   (E)   This chapter does not apply to consultants, elected officials,
volunteers, and contract employees.
   (F)   This chapter does not apply to employees of Beaufort County Schools or
Washington City School Systems.
   (G)   If any provision of this chapter, or rules created to enforce the
policies are held invalid, all remaining policies and rules will remain in
effect.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.004  EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
   The county will not discriminate against applicants or employees on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or physical
disability in any employment area including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Recruitment;
   (B)   Placement;
   (C)   Pay;
   (D)   Discipline;
   (E)   Promotion;
   (F)   Demotion;
   (G)   Termination;
   (H)   Working conditions;
   (I)   Training;
   (J)   Awards; or
   (K)   Benefits.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.005  OFFICIAL AND EMPLOYEE COPIES.
   (A)   An official copy of the personnel policies and rules will be available
in the County Manager’s office.
   (B)   A copy of the personnel policies and rules will be provided to each
employee at the time of employment. The employee shall sign for the copy
received to verify receipt.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.006  ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   These policies become effective when adopted by the County
Commissioners.
   (B)   These policies may be amended or totally revised by using the same
procedure as used for the initial adoption of the policies. Revisions shall
become effective immediately upon approval or at such time as the Board
designates.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.007  FORMS.
   The County Manager shall provide procedures and forms necessary for
personnel administration and instruct the staff in their proper use.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.008  CLARIFICATION OF PROCEDURES.
   Anytime a question arises concerning the application or interpretation of
policies or rules, inquiry should be made to the County Manager before
proceeding.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
CLASSIFICATION
§ 32.020  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this subchapter are to establish various classifications for
positions within the county and to establish management policies for specified
personnel actions.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.021  CLASSIFICATION.
   The following classifications of staff are established:
   (A)   For purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201
et seq.:
      (1)   Exempt employees. Includes salaried personnel who are exempt from
state and federal fair wage and hour laws. These include the executive,
administrative, and professional staff of the county; and
      (2)   Non-exempt employees. Includes hourly or salaried employees who
receive overtime compensation subject to state and federal wage and hour laws.
   (B)   For purposes of employment status:
      (1)   Regular employees. Includes full-time and part-time employees who
have satisfactorily completed their probationary period and work regularly
scheduled hours each work week;
      (2)   Temporary employees. Includes full- or part-time employees being
employed for:
         (a)   Hourly work on an as-needed basis;
         (b)   Completion of a specific job; or
         (c)   A specific time period.
      (3)   Full-time employees. Includes employees who work the standard work
week established by the county;
      (4)   Part-time employees. Includes employees who work less than the
standard work week; and
      (5)   Probationary employees. Includes full- or part-time introductory
employees who are serving a test employment period.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
POSITION MANAGEMENT
§ 32.035  RECRUITMENT.
   (A)   Vacant positions will be reviewed by the applicable department head
and the County Manager to determine whether they should be filled. Applicants
will be recruited for vacant positions that are to be filled by any means
necessary to reach an adequate labor market and may include:
      (1)   Advertisements in newspapers;
      (2)   Posting in the courthouse and work sites;
      (3)   Mailed notices to local employment agencies and governmental
sources for referral or applicants;
      (4)   Employee referrals; and
      (5)   Employment Security Commission.
   (B)   Announcements of vacant positions will include the job title,
beginning salary, minimum qualifications, and application instructions.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.036  SELECTION.
   Applicants will be screened by the department head, or the appropriate
supervisor to determine whether applicants met the announced requirements
including the minimum education and experience. Reference and application
information, such as training and experience, will be verified by Department
personnel. Applicants will be interviewed by the department head or the
appropriate supervisor. The top applicant should be offered the job. This
procedure will be followed until the position is filled or a determination is
made to either readvertise or leave the position vacant. This procedure will be
followed to fill vacant positions when hiring new personnel. Initial applicant
screening may be delegated to the Employment Security Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.037  APPOINTMENT.
   Offers to fill vacant positions should be made in writing and specify the
job title, type of appointment (probation, temporary, or part-time), rate of
pay, and any conditions of employment. The applicant who accepts an appointment
to a vacant position should acknowledge the appointment in writing.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.038  PROBATION.
   (A)   All new employees will serve a probationary period. This is considered
to be a period of learning and adjustment to assure that the employee can
perform the job. The probationary period is considered a test which may be
terminated at any time. The probationary period shall be no less than three
months and no longer than nine months.
   (B)   Six months is the normal probationary period but may be shortened or
extended for up to three months by the County Manager upon recommendation by
the department head.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.039  TRANSFERS.
   A transfer is a reassignment from one position to another position in a
different department with similar duties and responsibilities and without a
change in pay. Transfers must be approved by the County Manager upon
recommendation of both affected department heads.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.040  VOLUNTARY SEPARATION FROM SERVICE.
   Employees may be voluntarily separated from service by either retirement or
resignation.
   (A)   Retirement.RETIREMENT is defined as voluntarily leaving employment
with the intention of obtaining benefits and may be based upon age or length of
service.
   (B)   Resignation. Employees may resign either in good standing or not in
good standing.
      (1)   Employees resign in good standing by submitting a letter of
resignation at least ten working days prior to the effective date. Employees
who resign in good standing may be considered for future employment with the
county.
      (2)   Employees resign not in good standing when:
         (a)   They fail to submit letters of resignation at least ten working
days in advance of the effective day;
         (b)   They are absent one working day following a leave of absence
without pay;
         (c)   They are absent without authorized leave for three working days;
or
         (d)   They resign to avoid announced disciplinary action.
      (3)   Employees resigning not in good standing are normally ineligible
for future employment with the county.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.041  INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION FROM SERVICE.
   Employees may be involuntarily separated from service by death, dismissal,
reduction in force, or medical disability.
   (A)   Death. The estates of employees who die while employed by the county
will be provided benefits and payments due to the employee at the time of the
employee’s death.
   (B)   Dismissal. Employees may be dismissed for unsatisfactory job
performance, improper work related behavior, or disciplinary reasons.
   (C)   Reduction in force.
      (1)   The County Commissioners may find it necessary to reduce the number
of employees based on reduction or elimination of funds, reduced or revised
workloads, or a decision by the county to reduce either its level of service or
staff.
      (2)   A specific plan will be developed for each planned reduction in
force which will establish those functions and positions to be retained and
establish lists of employees who are to be retained and those who are to be
separated, laid off, or work reduced hours.
         (a)   The plan will be developed by the County Manager and reviewed by
the County Commissioners.
         (b)   The plan will specify retention and separation factors. Possible
factors may include:
            1.   Performance evaluation ratings;
            2.   Qualifications to perform additional work activities within
the same or similar program areas; and/or
            3.   Continuous county service.
         (c)   Part-time jobs may be eliminated or combined, but part-time
employees need not be separated to preclude the separation of full-time
employees.
      (3)   When a reduction in force is proposed to the County Commissioners,
the County Manager will inform all employees that a plan is being considered.
Upon approval, but in no case less than 14 days prior to the reduction in
force, the affected employees will be given written notices of how the plan
affects them.
      (4)   Employees involuntarily separated by a reduction in force may apply
for re-employment if qualified for the vacant position.
   (D)   Medical disability.
      (1)   Employees who are disabled for medical reasons and have exhausted
sick leave and personal leave may be put on leave of absence without pay for
disability reasons.
      (2)   (a)   Employees will be separated from service for medical
disability after 90 calendar days on leave without pay or upon commencement of
medical disability payments, whichever occurs first. Employees on medical
disability leave by reason of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
condition will not be separated from service.
         (b)   Other employees who recover and apply for employment may be re-
employed if there are vacant positions for which they are qualified at the time
of their application.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.042  SEPARATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before separation, the employee may have an interview with the County
Manager and his or her department head.
   (B)   During the interview, the employee may ask any questions concerning
his or her status, final pay, and the like.
   (C)   If the separation is involuntary, the employee will be informed of the
right to appeal.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
INCOMPATIBLE ACTIVITIES
§ 32.055  PURPOSE.
   County employees, due to the public trust placed in governmental employees,
must avoid actions which create a conflict of interest or are illegal. The
following policies are designed to assure that both the employee and the county
are protected from charges of improper or illegal actions.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.056  GIFTS, GRATUITIES, OR LOANS.
   (A)   Employees shall not accept gifts, gratuities, or loans from
organizations, business concerns, or individuals with whom the county has
official business relationships.
   (B)   These limitations do not apply to acceptance of articles of negotiable
value which are distributed generally, nor do they prohibit employees from
obtaining loans from regular lending institutions.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.057  POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employee has a civic responsibility to support good
government by every means and in every appropriate manner.
      (2)   Each employee may join or affiliate with civic organizations of a
partisan or political nature, may attend political meetings, and may advocate
and support the principles or politics of civic or political organizations in
accordance with the Constitution of the United States.
      (3)   However, no employee shall:
         (a)   Engage in any political or partisan activity while on duty;
         (b)   Use official authority or influence for the purpose of
interfering with or affecting the result of an election or a nomination for
office;
         (c)   Be required as a duty of employment or as a condition for
employment, promotion, or tenure of office to contribute funds for political or
partisan purposes;
         (d)   Coerce or compel contributions for political or partisan
purposes by another employee of the county; or
         (e)   Use any supplies or equipment of the county for political or
partisan purposes.
   (B)   Competitive service employees and employees in certain federal-aided
programs are subject to the Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 through 7326, as
amended in 1975. This federal act, in addition to prohibiting divisions (A)(3)
(b) through (A)(3)(d) above, also prohibits candidacy for elective office in a
partisan election. Any violation of this section shall subject such employee to
dismissal or other disciplinary action.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.058  OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employment with the county is to be considered the primary work effort
of each employee.
   (B)   Outside employment may be allowed under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Employees will not be employed by any agencies or firms with whom
the county has business dealings or review authority;
      (2)   The proposed outside employment will not interfere, in any way,
with the performance of the employee’s duties; and/or
      (3)   The proposed work schedule and outside employment are approved in
advance by the department head.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.059  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   It is the responsibility of all county employees to avoid acquiring any
personal interest, either direct or indirect, which is incompatible or in
conflict with the discharge of the employee’s function, duty, or responsibility
to the county.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.060  EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES.
   (A)   Members of an immediate family shall not be employed at the same time
if such employment would result in an employee directly or indirectly
supervising a member of the immediate family.
   (B)   This policy shall not be retroactive, and no action will be taken
concerning those members of the same family employed in conflict with division
(A) above prior to the adoption of this policy.
   (C)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY is defined for the purpose of this section as spouse,
mother, father, guardian, children, sister, brother, grandparents,
grandchildren, plus the various combinations of half, step, in-law, and adopted
relationships that can be derived from those named.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall approve the appointment by the
Sheriff or Register of Deeds of a relative by blood or marriage of nearer
kinship than first cousin as required by G.S. § 153a-103(1).
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
DISCIPLINE
§ 32.075  COVERAGE.
   The system of progressive discipline does not apply to probationary or
temporary employees who may be separated at any time and for any reason.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.076  TYPES OF ACTIONS REQUIRING DISCIPLINE.
   The county has established two types of employee actions which require
discipline:
   (A)   Employee actions subject to first offense suspension, dismissal, or
demotion; or
   (B)   Employee actions subject to progressive discipline.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.077  FIRST OFFENSE SUSPENSION, DISMISSAL, OR DEMOTION.
   (A)   First offense disciplinary action may result from the determination
that an employee has taken an action that is detrimental to the county and is
of the magnitude that such disciplinary action is appropriate in order to avoid
undue disruption of work, to protect the safety of persons or property, or for
other serious reasons.
   (B)   All employees who have successfully completed a probationary period
and are dismissed on a first offense will be offered the opportunity to appeal
in accordance with the appeal procedure in §
32.080(B).
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.078  PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Progressive discipline may result when an employee’s work performance
is unsatisfactory over a period of time and improvement is not shown after
being informed of the deficiencies.
   (B)   (1)   The following steps in progressive discipline will be followed
when violations are minor.
      (2)   When flagrant violations occur, discipline may begin at any stage
up to and including suspension.
   (C)   Upon the discovery of any action or alleged action which leads to
discipline, the department head will determine whether or not disciplinary
action is required and at which stage progressive discipline will begin.
      (1)   If disciplinary action is required, the first step shall be to
issue an oral warning to the employee.
      (2)   If the action is repeated, a written warning will be issued and the
employee asked to confirm receipt of the warning.
      (3)   (a)   If there is a subsequent repetition of the same or similar
action, the employee may be suspended without pay for a period of up to 15
days, or it may be recommended to the County Manager that the employee be
dismissed.
         (b)   Suspension or dismissal shall be a joint decision between the
department head and the County Manager.
   (D)   In the case of alcohol or other substance abuse, the employee may be
required to participate in a rehabilitation program at his or her own expense
as a condition of further employment.
   (E)   Upon request, an employee may have another employee of his or her
choice present when he or she is questioned concerning an offense subject to
discipline.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.079  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The following appeal procedures are provided to assure that employees
are afforded an opportunity to make their concerns known on personnel matters.
   (B)   Two types of appeal procedures are provided.
      (1)   Grievance. A grievance is a formal claim or complaint based upon an
event or condition which affects the circumstance under which employees are
hired, work, promoted, demoted, laid off, or separated.
      (2)   Appeal of separation. Appeal of separation is a special procedure
to be used when an employee is to be involuntarily separated from service.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.080  PROCEDURE OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Grievance. The following procedures are established for handling
formal grievances as defined in §
32.079.
      (1)   The grievance will be submitted in writing to the department head.
      (2)   The department head will answer the grievance in writing and
document both the grievance and response within five working days.
      (3)   (a)   If the department head cannot resolve the grievance, the
employee may submit the grievance in writing to the County Manager within ten
days from the department head’s response.
         (b)   The County Manager will answer the grievance in writing within
15 working days after it is presented to him or her.
         (c)   The decision by the County Manager with respect to grievances
shall be final.
   (B)   Appeal of separation. An employee may appeal any proposed involuntary
separation. (Reference §
32.082.) This appeal process will be as follows.
      (1)   The appeal will be submitted in writing to the County Manager
within five working days from the separation.
      (2)   The County Manager will answer the appeal in writing within five
working days after it is presented to him or her.
      (3)   If the action of the County Manager does not resolve the appeal to
the satisfaction of the employee, the appeal may be submitted in writing to the
County Commissioners. The County Commissioners will hear and make a decision on
the appeal within 30 working days of receipt of the appeal.
      (4)   The County Commissioners, when reviewing, shall review the findings
of all parties concerned and may obtain additional information as it deems
necessary. Action by the Board of Commissioners shall be final.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.081  SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT AND REGISTER OF DEED’S OFFICE.
   For employees in these departments, there shall be no appeal beyond the
decision of the respective department head.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.082  SOCIAL SERVICES, HEALTH, AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES.
   These employee’s grievance procedures are subject to the North Carolina
Human Resources Act, being G.S. §§ 126-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
BENEFITS
§ 32.095  HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The following holidays are observed by the county:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Easter Monday;
      (3)   Memorial Day;
      (4)   Independence Day;
      (5)   Labor Day;
      (6)   Veterans Day;
      (7)   Thanksgiving Day and the day after; and
      (8)   Christmas according to the following depending on the day of the
week that is actually December 25.
 
Day Christmas Falls on County Holidays
Friday                 Thursdays and Fridays
Saturday or Sunday     Friday and Monday
Monday                 Monday and Tuesday
Thursday               December 24, 25, and 26
 
   (B)   When a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the county will observe
the same day designated by the state government.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990; Ord. passed 10-3-1990)
§ 32.096  PERSONAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Use. Personal leave is provided for vacation, recreation, and personal
business.
   (B)   Accrual.
      (1)   All regular and probationary employees who work 19 or more hours
per week accrue personal leave. Leave accrual is in accordance with the
following table for full-time employees.
 
Years of Employment Accrual Rate (Monthly) Accrual Rate (Annually)
Less than 1         1/2 day/month          6 days
1-8                 1 day/month            12 days
8 plus              1-1/2 days/month       18 days
 
      (2)   Part-time employees who work at least 19 hours per week will earn
personal and sick leave on the same percentage basis as their percentage of
work is to full time. Part-time employees who work less than 19 hours per week
will not accrue any leave benefits.
   (C)   Maximum accrual. Employees may accumulate leave with no maximum during
the calendar year, but may carry forward a maximum of 30 days to January 1 each
year.
   (D)   Requests. Requests for personal leave will be submitted to the
employee’s department head or the appropriate designated supervisor to be
granted at the discretion of the department head so not to interfere with the
department’s operations.
   (E)   Conflicts. Every effort will be made to accommodate requests for
personal leave. Requests may be disapproved due to the workload or staffing
level. Any conflicts which cannot be resolved by the immediate supervisor or
department head will be referred to the County Manager.
   (F)   Transfer of leave. Unused accumulated personal leave may be
transferred from the county to another government unit if the unit to which the
transfer is being made will accept the leave. This includes transfers between
state and local agencies. The county will accept up to ten days of personal
leave transferred from a state governmental unit upon receipt of proper
documentation of the availability of the leave.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990; Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Res. passed 8-5-1992)
§ 32.097  SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Sick leave with pay is not a right which an employee may demand, but a
privilege granted by the Board of Commissioners for the benefit of an employee
due to illness. Notification of the employee’s desire to take sick leave should
be submitted to the employee’s supervisor prior to the leave or not later than
two hours after the beginning of the employee’s scheduled workday.
      (1)   Personal or family illness.
         (a)   Sick leave may be used for:
            1.   Rest or recuperation during or after illnesses or injuries,
including pregnancy and childbirth-related illnesses; and
            2.   Personal and immediate family health care appointments and
treatment.
         (b)   Family members for this section include children and/or spouses
living in the homes of employees.
      (2)   Deaths. Sick leave may be used to:
         (a)   Attend funerals;
         (b)   Make arrangements for funerals; and
         (c)   Handle affairs of deceased family members.
   (B)   A maximum of four hours per occurrence is allowed for non-family
members; up to five days sick leave may be used in the event of the death of a
spouse, child, or parent; and two days sick leave may be used in the event of
the death of other family members. Other family members include parents-in-law,
grandmothers and grandfathers, nieces and nephews, aunts and uncles, and
grandsons and granddaughters.
      (1)   Accrual rate. Full-time employees will accrue sick leave at the
rate of one day each calendar month worked.
      (2)   Maximum accrual. Sick leave may be accumulated without limit.
      (3)   Abuse.
         (a)   Employees are expected to use sick leave for health-related
absences only.
         (b)   When a pattern of an excessive number of hours or the frequency
of use of sick leave indicates possible abuse, supervisors may require a
certification from a health care provider concerning the nature of the illness.
         (c)   Abuse of sick leave may result in disciplinary action.
      (4)   Transfer of sick leave. Unused accumulated sick leave may be
transferred from one government unit to another if the unit to which the
transfer is being made will accept the leave. This includes transfers between
state and local units. The county will accept sick leave transfers.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.098  MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   Regular employees who are active members of the National Guard or
reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard
are entitled to a military leave with pay for training or other service up to
15 working days in each fiscal year.
   (B)   Leaves of absence without pay for regular employees who are active
members of the National Guard or reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air
Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard may be granted for absences in excess of
15 working days. For extended periods of service, leave will be granted in
accordance with applicable state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.099  CIVIC LEAVE.
   Civic leave with pay will be granted to regular employees who are subpoenaed
to attend court as a juror or witness except when involved in personal
litigation. Evidence of required civic service may be requested by the
department head.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.100  LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY.
   Leaves of absence without pay may be granted, subject to approval by the
County Commissioners, for absences for personal reasons, for education not
directly related to employee duties, extended military service, and illness
including pregnancy and childbirth-related illnesses.
   (A)   Conditions.
      (1)   Leaves of absence without pay, except military leave and pregnancy
or childbirth-related illnesses, are limited to 30 working days in a fiscal
year.
      (2)   Leave of absence without pay for pregnancy or childbirth-related
illnesses shall not exceed five months in a given fiscal year. Positions will
remain open during periods of approved leaves of absence without pay.
      (3)   Failure to return to work on the first working day following leaves
of absence without pay are considered voluntary resignations. Accrued personal
and sick leave balances will be retained during leaves of absences without pay,
but accrual of additional leave will be suspended.
   (B)   Requests. Requests for leaves of absence without pay will be submitted
to the County Manager as far in advance as possible.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.101  WORKER’S COMPENSATION LEAVE.
   An employee injured in accordance with state worker’s compensation
regulations must use sick and/or vacation leave or take leave without pay.
Employees using sick or vacation leave will be paid their normal compensation.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.102  INSURANCE.
   (A)   Hospital and group life insurance are available to all regular
employees who work at least 19 hours per week and who are acceptable to the
county’s carrier.
   (B)   Premiums for the county’s plan are paid for individual employee
coverage for hospitalization. Life insurance and family hospitalization
coverage will be at the employee’s option and at his or her expense.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.103  RETIREMENT.
   All employees who work 1,000 hours or more per year (19 hours per week)
participate in the state Local Government Employees Retirement System. This
participation is based on a cost share formula that requires the employee to
contribute 6% and the county to contribute the balance.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.104  TRAVEL AND EXPENSE ALLOWANCES.
   All allowances listed below pertain to county employees while on approved
county business.
   (A)   Transportation.
      (1)   For transportation by privately owned automobile: $0.24 per mile of
travel and actual cost of parking, road, bridge, tunnel, and ferry tolls.
      (2)   For transportation by airline, bus, railroad, or other public
conveyances: actual cost of tourist class fare.
   (B)   Lodging.
      (1)   Reimbursement for actual cost for reasonable accommodations is not
to exceed $30 per day in-state and $38 per day out-of-state.
      (2)   Convention or conference accommodations headquartered at a
particular hotel may be reimbursed for the actual rate at that hotel.
      (3)   Receipts for lodging shall be required.
   (C)   Meals.
      (1)   Maximum reimbursement for meals shall be according to the following
table.
 
Meal      In- and Out-of-State
Breakfast $4
Lunch     $5
Dinner    $9
 
      (2)   Actual cost reimbursement will be allowed for “banquet” or special
meals which are a part of a convention, meeting, or seminar.
      (3)   If an employee is not involved in overnight travel, there normally
will be no reimbursement for breakfast or dinner, unless it is a special
situation approved by the County Manager. In order for the county to reimburse
for breakfast, the employee will have to have been involved in overnight travel
for the previous night and for dinner, overnight travel the same night.
      (4)   There will be no reimbursement of any expense for alcoholic
beverages.
      (5)   There will be no reimbursement for meals in the county.
      (6)   Employees engaged in travel that would encompass a complete days’
meals may be reimbursed the total daily rate for any combination of meals and
are not subject to the per meal requirement. Receipts are still required for
all reimbursements.
   (D)   Registration and miscellaneous.
      (1)   Registration fees as shown by receipt; and
      (2)   Other allowable expenses include cab fare and baggage handling.
   (E)   Prior approval of travel. All travel requiring reimbursement by the
county must have prior approval as follows.
      (1)   Meetings requiring overnight travel or registration must be
presented to the County Commissioners at their monthly meeting.
      (2)   Meetings not requiring overnight travel or registration fees must
be approved by the County Manager.
      (3)   Travel requests must be submitted on the necessary forms prior to
the anticipated travel in order for the county to reimburse expenses.
   (F)   Receipts required for reimbursement. Receipts are required for
reimbursement of meals, lodging, airfare, conference registrations, and any
miscellaneous expenses.
   (G)   Travel.
      (1)   Whenever possible, employees should travel by county vehicle,
rather than by personal car.
      (2)   When two or more officials or employees are attending the same
meeting, conference, or workshop, they should travel and lodge together
whenever possible and appropriate.
   (H)   Use of county vehicles.
      (1)   When not in use during normal business hours, all county vehicles
shall be parked at the courthouse, Health Department, or other regular
workplace. The following exceptions are permitted.
         (a)   Because these officials must frequently attend meetings, respond
to emergency situations, and the like, outside of normal business hours, the
County Manager and County Engineer may use vehicles assigned to them for home
to work and work to home travel.
         (b)   Where solid waste collection routes are such that mileage can be
saved by ending or beginning daily routes at the operator’s home, rather than
at the landfill, the County Engineer may authorize operators to park solid
waste collection vehicles at home upon completion of daily routes.
         (c)   The Sheriff may authorize his or her officers to park the
vehicles assigned to them at their place of residence when not on duty.
         (d)   When an employee is occasionally required to travel on county
business before or after normal working hours, the appropriate department head
may authorize the employee to drive a county vehicle to his or her home.
      (2)   State law makes it unlawful for any officer, agent, or employee of
the county to use for any private purpose whatsoever, any motor vehicle of any
type of description whatsoever belonging to the county.
   (I)   County employees traveling on state reimbursement.
      (1)   Should a county employee undertake state and/or county business and
the county receive reimbursement from the state based on state travel limits,
the employee will be allowed to expend and be reimbursed by the county up to
the state travel limits.
      (2)   The employee will have the responsibility to provide necessary
receipts to the county prior to reimbursement. Upon receipt of state
reimbursement, the employee or his or her department must provide an itemized
list of the state payment to the County Finance office.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990; Ord. passed 10-3-1990)
COMPENSATION PLAN
§ 32.115  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth the policies regarding the
calculation of compensation of employees for hours worked and leaves of absence
with pay.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.116  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Employees of the county will be paid in accordance with the approved
pay plan adopted by the County Commissioners and administered by the County
Manager.
   (B)   Employees shall be paid monthly on the twenty-fifth of the month or
the last working day preceding this date.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.117  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Ratios for determining compensation. Compensation will be computed
using the following ratios.
      (1)   Annual compensation is the hourly pay multiplied by 2080.
      (2)   Monthly compensation is the annual compensation divided by 12.
      (3)   Hourly compensation is the annual compensation divided by 2080.
   (B)   Regular full-time employees.
      (1)   Salaried regular full-time employees will be paid monthly amounts
as determined in division (A) above, regardless of the number of hours in a pay
period, provided actual work and/or paid leaves of absence account for all
hours in the pay period.
      (2)   Hourly regular full-time employees will be paid monthly. The amount
will be computed by multiplying the hourly rate by the actual number of hours
worked, holiday hours, and paid leave hours up to 40 work week hours. Time and
one-half the hourly rate will be paid to all combination of work and holiday
hours which exceed 40 in a work week.
   (C)   Part-time and temporary employees. Pay for part-time and temporary
employees will be monthly and the amount will be computed by multiplying the
hourly rate by the actual number of hours worked.
   (D)   Adjustment to pay. If due to working less than the full pay periods or
having inadequate leave of absence with pay to cover the periods for which an
employee is absent from work, the rate of pay shall be calculated by
multiplying the hourly rate of pay by the number of hours actually worked
during the pay period.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.118  OVERTIME.
   (A)   Standard work periods for county employees are as follows.
Pay Rate Category Work Period Minimum Work Hours
Pay Rate Category     Work Period Minimum Work Hours
Hourly   Nursing home 7 days      40 hours
Hourly   Solid waste  7 days      40 hours
Monthly  All others   7 days      37.5 hours
Monthly  Deputy       28 days     171 hours
Monthly  Dispatchers  7 days      40 hours
Monthly  Inspectors   7 days      40 hours
Monthly  Jailer       28 days     171 hours
 
   (B)   Work hours should include the time that an employee spends on the job
undertaking work duties.
      (1)   Computation for overtime will include county designated holiday
hours and work hours over and above 40 hours for a seven-day work period for
non-law enforcement and over 171 hours for a 28-day work period for law
enforcement employees.
      (2)   Sick and vacation time off in a work period will not count towards
computing overtime hours. These leave times may be counted in order to make a
work period’s hours come up to the minimum but will not be included in
computing overtime.
      (3)   For employees who receive a fixed salary and are on a 37.5- or 40-
hour work week, overtime will be considered when their regular work week hours
are exceeded. This includes those employees who work a standard 37.5-hour work
week. Deputies’ and Jailers’ overtime must exceed 171 work hours in the
specified 28-day work period.
      (4)   Employees must receive prior written approval from their department
head or County Manager in order to be compensated for overtime. Overtime, when
approved, will be compensated on a basis of time and one-half for each hour
worked.
      (5)   On-call periods should not be counted for the purpose of computing
work hours. On-call is considered to be a back-up position for an emergency
situation. Individuals who are assigned to be on-call are not restricted to the
employer’s premises or their own residences, but must remain in their
respective response area and must keep the County Communications Center or
their supervisor informed of their location and telephone number. Since the
employee can use this time for his or her own purposes, it should not be
counted as work time. When called to work from on-call status, work time should
begin when the employee begins actual work duties and ends when work duties
end.
      (6)   Payment for overtime may be in the form of compensatory time off or
monetary compensation included in the employee’s regular paycheck at the
discretion of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990; Res. passed 8-5-1992)
§ 32.119  DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   The county will make standard deductions from the employee’s
compensation each pay period. These deductions shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, Social Security, federal withholding tax, state
withholding tax, and retirement. State credit union deductions and insurance
coverages requested by the employee and not paid by the county may also be
deducted.
   (B)   Because these deductions are calculated on the basis of information
provided by the employee, it is mandatory that the employee keep the county
informed of their personal status for withholding purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.120  PAY PLAN.
   (A)   Entry pay level. The pay at entry for a new employee normally will be
at the minimum hiring rate authorized for the job, but may be set at a higher
level by the County Commissioners upon recommendation of the County Manager
based upon prior training and experience of the new employee.
   (B)   Demotion. Demoted employees will normally receive the minimum pay for
the position to which they are appointed.
   (C)   Promotion. Employees promoted to a higher paying job will normally
receive the minimum pay for the position to which they are appointed.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.121  AMOUNTS DUE EMPLOYER WHEN ON LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY.
   The county does not provide benefits for employees on leave of absence
without pay. Those employees on leave without pay must reimburse the county for
the cost of insurance, or other benefits
which are to be paid on their behalf if they are to remain active in the
program over the period which they are on approved leave without pay.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 32.122  PAY AT SEPARATION.
   (A)   An employee separated in good standing for any reason will be paid for
any unused personal leave time that has accrued, that is not being transferred
to another employer. Accrued sick leave will not be paid.
   (B)   An employee who retires in good standing will receive credit for
unused accrued sick leave toward retirement benefits (according to retirement
system regulations), but will receive no payment for this accrued unused sick
leave.
   (C)   All eligible separated employees will be paid any overtime due to
them.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
APPENDIX A: CERTIFICATE OF RECEIPT
   During your first three to nine months of employment here, you will be a
probationary employee. This is expected to be a period of adjustment and
learning. This period should also be considered an employment test, you are not
guaranteed employment during the probationary period nor are you guaranteed
employment upon the completion of your probationary period.
   These personnel policies are not a contract of employment. Any individual
may voluntarily leave employment and may be terminated by the employer at any
time and for any reason. Any oral or written statements or promises to the
contrary are hereby expressly disavowed and should not be relied upon by any
prospective or existing employee. The contents of these policies are subject to
change at any time at the discretion of the employer.
   It is your responsibility to be familiar with the contents of this manual.
Its contents will help guide you toward job behavior which reflects credit upon
you as well as the County.
   I certify that I have read the attached Welcome Letter and that I have
received a copy of the Personnel Policies of Beaufort County.
Signature______________ Date________________
CHAPTER 33:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Civil Preparedness
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Establishment of the Office of Civil Preparedness
   
33.03   Intent and purpose
   
33.04   Definitions
   
33.05   Organization and appointments
   
33.06   Emergency powers and duties
   
33.07   Duties and responsibilities of the Coordinator
   
33.08   Civil preparedness plans
   
33.09   County, municipal, or private liability
   
33.10   Violation of regulations
   
33.11   Emergency interim succession to the Board of Commissioners
   
33.12   Effective date
State of Emergency Proclamation
   
33.25   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
33.26   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
33.27   Curfew
   
33.28   Restrictions on possession, consumption, or transfer or intoxicating
liquor
   
33.29   Restrictions on possession, transportation, and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
33.30   Restrictions on access to areas
   
33.31   Proclamation may prohibit or restrict
   
33.32   Amendments of the proclamation
   
33.33   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
33.34   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
33.35   Absence or disability of Chairperson
   
33.36   Territorial applicability
   
33.37   Effective date
 
   
33.99   Penalty
CIVIL PREPAREDNESS
§ 33.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “County Civil Preparedness
Subchapter”.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.02  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF CIVIL PREPAREDNESS.
   Under the authority of G.S. Ch. 166A, the county establishes an Office of
Civil Preparedness.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.03  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to establish an office
that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the county’s
and the incorporated municipalities’ resources to combat disaster resulting
from enemy actions or other disasters as defined herein.
   (B)   The County Office of Civil Preparedness will be the coordinating
agency for all activities in connection with civil preparedness. It will be the
instrument through which the Board of Commissioners and town councils may
exercise the authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in them during
disaster emergencies.
   (C)   This subchapter will not relieve any town or county department of the
moral responsibilities or authority given to it in the town or county charter
or by local ordinances, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer
agency organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. Direct or indirect assault against the county, its government, its
environs, or of the nation, by the forces of a hostile nation or the agents
thereof, including, assault by bombing, conventional or nuclear, chemical or
biological warfare, sabotage, or other weapons or processes.
   BEAUFORT COUNTY. All incorporated and unincorporated areas within the
boundaries of Beaufort County.
   CIVIL PREPAREDNESS. Those plans, actions, and procedures necessary to
provide protection to the people against loss of life, injury, and loss or
damage to property caused by natural phenomena or human-made causes such as
war, insurrection, riot, or accidents; and those measures necessary to mitigate
the effects of the destructive forces of man and nature, to provide for
response to disaster conditions and for the relief of suffering and hardship
resulting from such conditions and to initiate rehabilitation of persons and
restoration of essential services and acceptable standards of living.
   CIVIL PREPAREDNESS FORCES. The employees, equipment, and facilities of all
the town and county departments, boards, councils, institutions, and
commissions; and, in addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel,
equipment, and facilities contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons
or agencies.
   CIVIL PREPAREDNESS VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified, and
appointed by the Coordinator of the County Civil Preparedness Agency and
assigned to participate in the civil preparedness activity.
   COORDINATOR. The Coordinator of the County Civil Preparedness Agency,
appointed as prescribed in this subchapter.
   DISASTER. Includes, but is not limited to, actual or threatened enemy
attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic, or other
impending or actual calamity endangering or threatening to endanger health,
life, property, or constituted government.
   REGULATIONS. Plans, programs, and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to civil preparedness.
   VOLUNTEER. Contributing a service, equipment, or facilities to the Civil
Preparedness Agency without remuneration.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.05  ORGANIZATION AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An agency of civil preparedness within the Executive Department of
the county government under the direction of the Board of Commissioners. The
agency head of the County Civil Preparedness Agency shall be known as the
Coordinator, and such assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary
for the proper functioning of the agency will be appointed;
      (2)   The employees and resources of all towns and county departments,
boards, institutions, and councils will participate in the civil preparedness
activities. Duties assigned to town or county departments shall be the same or
similar to the normal duties of the Department where possible; and
      (3)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering service to and accepted
by the towns and county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Coordinator of the County
Civil Preparedness Agency who shall be a person well-versed and trained in
planning operations involving the activities of many different agencies which
will operate to protect the public health, safety, and welfare in the event of
danger from enemy action or disaster as defined in this subchapter.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall designate and appoint Deputy Coordinators to
assume the emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his or her
absence or inability to act.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.06  EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   During any period when disaster threatens or when the county has been
struck by disaster, within the definition of this subchapter, the Civil
Preparedness Coordinator may promulgate such regulations as he or she deems
necessary to protect life and property and preserve critical resources. This
promulgation of regulations solely by the Coordinator will be only when
immediacy of necessary action precludes contact and discussion with the County
Commissioners.
   (B)   Such regulations may include, but shall not be limited to the
following:
      (1)   Regulations prohibiting or restricting the movement of vehicles in
order to facilitate the work of civil preparedness forces or to facilitate the
mass movement of persons from critical areas within the county;
      (2)   Regulations pertaining to the movement of persons from areas deemed
to be hazardous or vulnerable to disaster;
      (3)   Such other regulations necessary to preserve public peace, health,
and safety; and
      (4)   Regulations promulgated in accordance with the authority above will
be given widespread circulation through all avenues of the news media.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.07  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners in
regard to all phases of the civil preparedness activity. The Coordinator shall
be responsible for the planning, coordination, and operation of the civil
preparedness activities in county and its municipalities. The Coordinator shall
act as a liaison with the state and federal authorities and the authorities of
nearby political subdivisions so as to ensure the most effective operation of
the civil preparedness plans.
   (B)   The Coordinator’s duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the county for civil preparedness
purposes;
      (2)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower, and other resources of county for the purpose
of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and protecting and
restoring to usefulness governmental services and public utilities necessary
for the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (3)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of building or other property for the use of such building or other
property for civil preparedness purposes and designating suitable buildings as
public shelters;
      (4)   Through public informational programs, educating the populace as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of enemy attack or disaster as defined in §
33.04, either impending or present;
      (5)   Conducting public practice alerts and exercises to ensure the
efficient operation of the civil preparedness forces and to familiarize
presidents with civil preparedness regulations, procedures, and operations; and
      (6)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any civil preparedness activities.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.08  CIVIL PREPAREDNESS PLANS.
   (A)   Comprehensive civil preparedness plans shall be adopted and maintained
by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. In the preparation of these plans
as it pertains to county organization, it is intended that the services,
equipment, facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and agencies
shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When approved, it shall be the duty of
all county and municipal departments and agencies to perform the functions
assigned, by these plans and to maintain their portions of the plans in a
current state of readiness at all times. Emergency operations plans and
regulations shall have the effect of law whenever a disaster, as defined in
this subchapter, has been proclaimed.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall prescribe in the emergency plans those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his or her own, for which
lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person
will designate and keep on file with the Coordinator a current list of three
persons as successors to his or her position. The list will be in order of
succession and will designate persons most capable of carrying out all assigned
duties and functions.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
basic plan shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions
assigned therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the
operation plan for his or her service which, when approved, shall be an annex
to and a part of the emergency operations plan.
   (D)   Amendments to the emergency operations plan shall be submitted to the
Coordinator. If approved, the Coordinator, will then submit the amendments to
the Board of Commissioners with his or her recommendation for its approval.
   (E)   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within local government, the Coordinator is authorized to seek
assistance from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when
of a supervisory nature, shall also grant authority for the persons so assigned
to carry out such duties prior, during, and after the occurrence of a disaster.
Such services from persons outside of government may be accepted by local
government on a volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be enrolled as civil
preparedness volunteers in cooperation with the heads of local government
departments affected.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.09  COUNTY, MUNICIPAL, OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is an exercise by the county of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health, and safety, and
neither the county and its towns nor agents and representatives if some, or any
individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or trustee,
or any of the agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying with, or
attempting to comply with any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant
to the provisions of this subchapter, shall be liable for any damage sustained
to persons or property as the result of said activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the county the right to inspect,
designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or
premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending, or
practice disaster situation shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to any persons on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege, or other permission; or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.10  VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter or of the regulations or plans issued pursuant to the authority
contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the
civil preparedness organization as herein defined in the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter or any regulations or plan issued thereunder.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.11  EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Designation.
      (1)   Under the authority of G.S. Ch. 162B, the county designates the
following to be the emergency interim succession to the Board of Commissioners:
         (a)   The County Manager;
         (b)   The County Accountant;
         (c)   The Register of Deeds; and
         (d)   The County Engineer.
      (2)   The County Manager or his or her successor shall act as
Chairperson.
   (B)   Oath. The emergency interim successors shall, before conducting any
public business, take the oath of office required of other County
Commissioners.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the emergency interim
successors, and their exercise thereof, shall be in accordance with G.S. Ch.
162B as amended.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
§ 33.12  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on November 3, 1975.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Res. passed 11-3-1975)
STATE OF EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION
§ 33.25  STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency, for
any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety, or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
county or any part thereof, or threatening damage to or destruction of
property, the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of the county is hereby
authorized and empowered under G.S. § 166A-19.22 to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in
order to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the
county, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter
authorized.
   (C)   The Chairperson is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the county and to specific
hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such
restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of his or her
respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other public
employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals, and
other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal;
on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and
newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and such other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to
serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the people within the county.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.26  PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners by proclamation may
impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in §§
33.27 through
33.31 in the manner described in those sections. The Chairperson may impose as
many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she finds are
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services, and to protect lives, safety, and property. The Chairperson
shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Chairperson shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the County Courthouse. The
Chairperson shall retain a text of the proclamation and furnish upon request
certified copies of it for use as evidence.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.27  CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of
people whose exemptions the Chairperson finds necessary for the preservation of
the public health, safety, and welfare. The proclamation shall state the
exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Chairperson, by proclamation,
removes the curfew.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.28  RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, OR TRANSFER OR INTOXICATING
LIQUOR.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine, other than on one’s own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale, or purchase of any
intoxicating liquor within the area of the county described in the
proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfer of
intoxicating liquor by employees of Alcoholic Beverage Control stores as well
as by anyone else within the geographic areas described.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.29  RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession of
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the restrictions
classes of people whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain
dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public
health, safety, or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device, explosive,
gasoline, or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a
threat of serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
      (2)   Any other instrument of substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or obstruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so destructively used; and
      (3)   Any part of any ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the county or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.30  RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area designated in the matter described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas of which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Sheriff and his or her subordinates when directed in the proclamation to do
so by the Chairperson. When acting under this authority, the Sheriff and his or
her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area, street, highway, or
location within the county if that restriction or denial or access or use is
reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or
to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.31  PROCLAMATION MAY PROHIBIT OR RESTRICT.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.32  AMENDMENTS OF THE PROCLAMATION.
   The Chairperson may amend or extend the proclamation from time to time,
making such modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include in
the original proclamation. The proclamation shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.33  REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Chairperson shall, by proclamation, remove the prohibitions and
restrictions as the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed to do
so by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.34  SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Chairperson in his or her discretion may invoke the restrictions
authorized by this subchapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any
proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.35  ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF CHAIRPERSON.
   In case of the absence of disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners, or such other person as may be
designated by the Board of Commissioners, shall have and exercise all of the
powers herein given the Chairperson.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.36  TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply within the corporate limits of any
municipality, or within any area of the county over which the municipality has
jurisdiction to enact general police power ordinances, unless the municipality
by resolution consents to its application, in which event, it shall apply to
such areas as fully and to the same extent as elsewhere in the county.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.37  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on July 5, 1977.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by §§
33.25 through
33.37 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977; Res. passed 7-5-1977)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   BACKFLOW WATER
      
51.   LANDFILLS
CHAPTER 50:  BACKFLOW WATER
Section
   
50.01   Public water system defined; approval of plans and specifications
   
50.02   Cross-connections
   
50.03   Water system
   
50.04   Facilities that require assemblies
   
50.05   Policy
   
50.06   Testing and repair of assemblies
   
50.07   Temporary water service
§ 50.01  PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM DEFINED; APPROVAL OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is a publicly- or privately-owned water system
regularly serving drinking water to the public and having at least 15 service
connections that are used at least 60 days of the year or serve an average of
25 individuals at least 60 days a year. Plans and specifications must be
approved by the State Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources,
Division of Health Services, Environmental Health Section.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. passed 1-8-2007)
§ 50.02  CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No potable water supply shall be connected by any means whatever to
another source of water supply or to a storage facility, unless such connection
has been approved by the State Division of Health Services and its Director.
   (B)   No person shall introduce any water into the distribution system or
the potable water supply through any means other than from a source of supply
duly approved by the State Division of Health Services and its Director, or
make a physical connection between an approved supply and unapproved supply
unless authorized in an emergency by the State Division of Health Services and
its Director.
   (C)   All cross-connections between potable water supplies and non-potable
or unprotected supply which are not specifically covered in the categories in
this section shall be considered as special problems and the protective devices
required shall be determined by the State Division of Health Services and its
Director on the basis of the degree of health hazard involved.
   (D)   No person shall fill special tanks or tankers containing pesticides,
fertilizers, other toxic chemicals, or their residues from the potable water
system, except at a location with an over-the-rim free discharge of water or an
approved reduced pressure backflow preventer properly installed on the potable
water supply.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. passed 1-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03  WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
county water system and the customer’s system.
   (B)   The county system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the county, up to the point where the customer’s
system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
   (D)   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used for
the delivery of water from the source to the customer’s system.
   (E)   The customer’s system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the county distribution system which are utilized in
conveying potable water to points of use.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2007)
§ 50.04  FACILITIES THAT REQUIRE ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any customer either operating or planning to operate facilities
identified by the county as having a potential for backflow into the county’s
public water supply system shall install an approved backflow prevention
assembly on all such service connections according to the degree of hazard
present. The following facilities have been identified by the county as having
a potential for backflow and require backflow prevention assemblies as
indicated.
      (2)   These guidelines are supplemental to § 1006(b) of the Rules
Governing Public Water Supplies.
   (B)   Degree of hazard.
      (1)   Severe. Actual or potential threat of contamination that presents
imminent danger to the public health with consequence of serious illness or
death.
      (2)   Moderate. One that presents foreseeable and significant potential
for pollution, nuisance, aesthetically objectionable, or other alterations of
the drinking water supply.
   (C)   Backflow prevention assembly requirements.
 
Degree of Hazard (RP) Reduced Pressure (DCVA) Double-Check Valve (AG) Air Gap
                 Zone                  Assembly
Moderate                               X
Severe           X                                               X
 
      (1)   Automotive service station; dealerships:
         (a)   Moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard (e.g., wash pits, hydraulic equipment): RP.
      (2)   Bakeries: DCVA;
      (3)   Beauty shops/barber shops:
         (a)   Moderate hazard (e.g., hair cuts): DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard (e.g., washing hair, chemical treatment): RP.
      (4)   Beverage bottling plants or breweries: RP;
      (5)   Canneries, packing houses, or rendering plants: RP;
      (6)   Chemical processing plants: RP;
      (7)   Church baptismal: DCVA;
      (8)   Commercial car wash facilities: RP;
      (9)   Commercial establishments using processed water:
         (a)   Moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard: RP.
      (10)   Commercial greenhouses: RP;
      (11)   Concrete/asphalt plants: RP;
      (12)   Dairies or cold storage plants: RP;
      (13)   Dentist or orthodontist: RP;
      (14)   Dye works: RP;
      (15)   Fanning:
         (a)   Moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard (e.g., chemicals, booster pump, direct watering):
RP.
      (16)   Film laboratories or photo processing: RP;
      (17)   Fire systems:
         (a)   Moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard (e.g., foam, antifreeze, booster pump): RP.
      (18)   Funeral homes: RP;
      (19)   Hospital, medical buildings, or medical clinics: RP;
      (20)   Laboratories: RP;
      (21)   Laundries:
         (a)   Moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard (e.g., dry cleaners): RP.
      (22)   Lawn irrigation systems:
         (a)   Moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard (e.g., booster pump, chemical system): RP.
      (23)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing, or fabricating plants:
RP;
      (24)   Morgues, mortuaries, or autopsy facilities: RP;
      (25)   Multi-story buildings:
         (a)   (Three or four stories) moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   (Five or more stories) severe hazard: RP.
      (26)   Nursing and convalescent homes: RP;
      (27)   Oil and gas production, storage, or transmission properties: RP;
      (28)   Pest control (exterminating or fumigating): RP;
      (29)   Power plants: RP;
      (30)   Restaurants: DCVA;
      (31)   Restricted, classified, or other closed facilities: RP;
      (32)   Sand or gravel plants: RP;
      (33)   Schools:
         (a)   Moderate hazard: DCVA; or
         (b)   Severe hazard: RP.
      (34)   Sewage or storm drain facilities: RP;
      (35)   Swimming pools: RP;
      (36)   Veterinary hospitals or clinics: RP;
      (37)   Wastewater treatment plants: RP;
      (38)   Water treatment plants: RP; or
      (39)   Waterfront commercial facilities and industries: RP.
   (D)   Other types of facilities. Other types of facilities not listed may
also be required to install approved backflow prevention assemblies if
determined necessary by the county.
   (E)   Approved backflow prevention assemblies. Approved backflow prevention
assemblies shall be installed on the customer’s system at the point of service
to any facility that the county identifies as having a potential for backflow.
These assemblies must meet the American Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE)
standard and carry an ASSE seal or is on the University of Southern California
approval list or is an assembly approved by the county.
   (F)   Backflow prevention assembly installation. Backflow prevention must be
located in a place where it is readily accessible for regular testing,
maintenance, and inspection. By-pass lines parallel to a backflow prevention
assembly shall have an approved backflow prevention assembly installed that is
equal to that on the main line.
      (1)   Reduced pressure zone:
         (a)   Above-ground installation preferred;
         (b)   Below-ground vault shall have positive drainage with adequate
gravity drainage to atmosphere; and
         (c)   Twelve-inch minimum clearance with manufacturer’s
recommendations.
      (2)   Double-check valve assembly:
         (a)   Vertical or horizontal installation acceptable; and
         (b)   Adequate drainage shall be provided if installed below-ground.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. passed 1-8-2007)
§ 50.05  POLICY.
   (A)   When it has been determined by the county that a requested service
requires the installation of a backflow prevention assembly, the customer
shall, prior to receiving such service, submit for review and approval, plans
and specifications of the proposed facilities. The submittal shall include a
description of proposed facilities. The submittal shall include a description
of proposed processes, operations, and the like in such detail as needed to
evaluate potential effects on the county’s system. Proposed assemblies shall be
identified by size, manufacturer and model number, or by specification.
   (B)   When it has been determined by the county that an existing service may
require the installation of a backflow prevention assembly, the customer shall
submit for review such information as may be necessary to permit the county to
evaluate the potential for undesirable effects on its system. Upon notification
of the customer by the county that a backflow prevention assembly(ies) is
necessary, the customer shall submit plans and specifications for approval and
install or cause to be installed entirely at the customer’s expense such
assemblies as may be necessary.
   (C)   If it has been determined by the county that an imminent health hazard
exists, then the water service to the facility causing the imminent health
hazard may be terminated.
   (D)   All existing facilities which pose a potential severe hazard to the
public water system shall install a reduce pressure principle backflow assembly
at the point of service within 60 days of notification by the county at the
customer’s expense.
   (E)   All existing industrial and commercial facilities that have or may
have an actual or potential cross-connection, that are not identified as a
“severe hazard”, shall be considered a moderate hazard facility. All existing
moderate hazard facilities shall install a double-check valve assembly at the
point of service within 90 days of notification by the county at the customer’s
expense.
   (F)   When required, an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed on each service line to a customer’s water system in accordance with
the requirements of the county at the customer’s expense.
   (G)   (1)   Reduced pressure principle assemblies shall be installed at the
point of service in a horizontal position and in a location in which no portion
of the assembly will become submerged under any circumstance or be subjected to
temperatures below freezing.
      (2)   Pit and/or below-grade installations are prohibited. An RP shall be
installed in accordance with detailed specifications provided by the county.
   (H)   (1)   All double-check valve assemblies shall be installed at the
point of service in drainable pits wherever below-ground installation is
necessary, in accordance with detailed specifications provided by the county.
      (2)   Double-check valve assemblies may be installed in a vertical
position with prior approval from the county, provided the flow of water is in
an upward direction.
   (I)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed such that periodic
testing and necessary repairs can be conveniently performed by county approved
backflow testers.
   (J)   No water service shall be provided to any facility or service that
requires the installation of a backflow prevention assembly until the installed
assembly has passed the test performed by a certified tester and the test
results have been received by the county.
   (K)   No new or existing water service connection to any premises shall be
installed or maintained by the county unless the water supply is protected by
an approved backflow prevention assembly(ies) as required by federal, state
laws, regulations, and the county ordinance.
   (L)   Water mains served by the county, but not maintained by the county,
shall be considered cross-connections. The degree of protection required shall
be based upon the degree of hazard, as determined by the county.
   (M)   No person shall fill special use tanks or tankers from the public
water system except at a county- approved location equipped with an air gap or
an approved reduced pressure backflow prevention assembly properly installed on
the county’s water supply.
   (N)   Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the assembly shall be the
responsibility of the customer.
   (O)   It shall be the customer’s responsibility to notify the county if the
customer’s water system becomes contaminated or polluted or if there is reason
to believe that a backflow incident has occurred from customer’s water system
into the public water system.
   (P)   Upon notification to the customer by the county that the existing
backflow prevention assembly is not in compliance with this chapter, the
customer shall replace the existing backflow prevention assembly with an
approved backflow prevention assembly in accordance with the requirements of
the county.
   (Q)   Removal of an approved backflow prevention assembly from a service
connection that has been deemed a hazard by the county may result in immediate
disconnection from the county’s public water supply.
   (R)   No person shall connect a hose to a fire hydrant unless an approved
backflow prevention assembly is connected to the hydrant, unless otherwise
approved by the county.
   (S)   (1)   The customer’s system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to county personnel to determine whether cross-connections or
other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations of this chapter,
exist.
      (2)   When such a condition becomes known, the county may deny or
immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing for a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the deficiency in
compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   Should an inspection of the premises be refused, the county
reserves the right to install, at the customer’s expense, a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly downstream of the water meter. The
county will bill the customer all costs associated with the installation of the
backflow prevention assembly plus an additional 50% surcharge.
   (T)   Backflow prevention assemblies that shall be connected to the county’s
public water system shall be limited to those assemblies approved by the county
or the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research,
University of Southern California, or meets the American Society of Sanitary
Engineering (ASSE) Standards and carries an ASSE seal.
   (U)   Installation of all backflow assemblies shall be the customer’s
responsibility unless otherwise stated by the county. Backflow prevention
assemblies shall be located downstream of the meter at the point of service or
at a location approved by the county.
   (V)   Any facility or customer found to be in noncompliance with the
provisions of this chapter and/or that neglects to correct a violation, may
have his, her, or their water service terminated.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06  TESTING AND REPAIR OF ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by a
certified backflow prevention assembly tester. Such tests shall be conducted
upon installation, prior to receiving service, and annually thereafter. A
record of all testing and repairs is to be retained by the customer. Copies of
the records shall be provided to the county within ten business days after the
completion of any testing and/or repair work.
   (B)   Any time that repairs to backflow prevention assemblies are deemed
necessary, whether through annual or required testing, or routine inspection by
the consumer or by the county, these repairs shall be completed within a
specified time in accordance with the degree of hazard. In no case shall this
time period exceed:
      (1)   Moderate hazard facilities: 15 business days; and
      (2)   Severe hazard facilities: ten business days.
   (C)   Submission of falsified test results or material that is incomplete in
any manner by a certified tester may result in the tester being removed from
the county’s tester list.
   (D)   Only original manufactured parts may be used to repair an assembly.
   (E)   All backflow prevention assembly testers shall submit a copy of their
tester’s certification to the county prior to testing any backflow assembly
(ies) connected to the county’s public water system.
   (F)   All equipment used to test backflow prevention assemblies with the
county’s public water system shall be properly maintained and calibrated
annually in accordance to the manufacturer’s guidelines. A copy of the
calibration certificate shall be submitted to the county.
   (G)   Backflow prevention must be located in a place where it is readily
accessible for regular testing, maintenance, and inspection. By-pass lines
parallel to a backflow prevention assembly shall have an approved backflow
prevention assembly installed that is equal to that on the main line.
      (1)   Reduced pressure zone:
         (a)   Above-ground installation preferred;
         (b)   Below-ground vault shall have positive drainage with adequate
gravity drainage to atmosphere; and
         (c)   Twelve-inch minimum clearance with manufacturer’s
recommendations.
      (2)   Double-check valve assembly:
         (a)   Vertical or horizontal installation acceptable; and
         (b)   Adequate drainage shall be provided if installed below-ground.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2007)
§ 50.07  TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The application fee for a hydrant meter shall be $25 for each 90 days
of usage or portion thereof plus the cost of the water used.
   (B)   The customer shall be responsible for all damages to the meter and
hydrant which occur as a result of their being used to provide a temporary
water service.
   (C)   The county will remove the hydrant meter at the end of the 90 days
unless requested to do so earlier. Hydrant meters will not be reinstalled in
the same location if permanent water service is available.
   (D)   County personnel shall install the hydrant meter with the fire hydrant
valve open. The customer shall not operate the fire hydrant. Unauthorized
operation of a fire hydrant shall be cause for removal of the hydrant meter.
   (E)   Only county personnel shall be allowed to move a hydrant meter.
Unauthorized relocation of a hydrant meter shall be cause for removal of the
hydrant meter.
   (F)   A request to relocate a hydrant meter will be handled the same as a
new application.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2007)
CHAPTER 51:  LANDFILLS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Assignment of administrative responsibility
   
51.03   Liability
   
51.04   Hours of operation
   
51.05   Vehicle requirements
   
51.06   Restrictions, prohibitions, and inspections
Collection System
   
51.20   Residential collection
   
51.21   Schools, hospitals, and similar institutions
   
51.22   Incorporated towns with a population of less than 1,000
   
51.23   Businesses and small industries
   
51.24   Industries
   
51.25   Articles larger than household refuse
Rate Schedule
   
51.40   Incorporated towns with a population of less than 1,000
   
51.41   Businesses and small industries
   
51.42   Industries
   
51.43   Container rental
   
51.44   Delinquent accounts
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Landfill Franchises, see
Ch. 114
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to explain and define operational
procedures for the disposal of waste in the county’s landfill(s) and collection
system and to eliminate health hazards through the sanitary disposal of wastes
in a manner that will ensure the protection of the environment.
   (B)   The county shall operate and supervise its sanitary landfills(s)
according to the guidelines established by the state and federal governments,
the County Commissioners, and the County Board of Health. The regulations
stated herein shall be the normal procedure in conducting the affairs of the
county’s landfill(s). If any provision or clause of the following regulations
shall be declared invalid, such declaration shall not invalidate any other
provision or clause of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit from trucks or
trailers any waste, refuse, garbage, ashes, rubbish, building rubbish,
combustible refuse, or industrial waste upon any of the sanitary landfills of
the county, except as herein provided.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02  ASSIGNMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The operation of the county’s landfill(s) and collection system shall
be under the jurisdiction of the County Commissioners. In order to ensure that
the operation of the landfill(s) and collection system is continually carried
out in the best public interest and to avoid adverse conditions to public
health, safety, and the environment, the County Commissioners authorize the
Solid Waste Division to set such additional rules and regulations, as in its
opinion may be appropriate.
   (B)    Supervision of the county’s landfill(s) shall be the responsibility
of the Landfill Supervisor, who shall be an employee of the Solid Waste
Division. The Landfill Supervisor’s duties shall include, but not be limited
to, operating the landfill according to the rules and regulations contained in
this chapter, designing fill locations, monitoring loads of solid waste,
controlling the speed and operation of vehicles at the facility, and conducting
the activities of the landfill in the interest of public health, safety, and
protection of the environment. The Supervisor shall see that all solid waste is
covered daily with a layer of compact earth.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.03  LIABILITY.
   As a public service, the county’s landfill(s) and collection system may be
used by private citizens at the times and under the conditions set forth in
this chapter. While the county offers this convenience, the county shall not be
responsible for damage to private property or personal injury which may occur
on the site. Neither the county nor its employees shall be liable for damage to
private vehicles or personal injury to persons using the county’s landfill or
collection system.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.04  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The landfill(s) shall normally be open during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m., Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., Saturday. The
landfill shall not be open for public use on Sunday or any holiday. Hours of
operation will be posted at the entrance and made known to the public at large
by all news media available.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.05  VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be allowed to deposit waste at the county’s landfill
unless the waste is enclosed in the vehicle or otherwise covered by some
effective means. EFFECTIVE MEANS shall mean durable, heavy plastic or canvas
with tie-downs and grommets in order to hold the covering in place. The
Landfill Supervisor shall determine the adequacy of the covering and his or her
decision shall be final. Any vehicle arriving on this site without being
properly covered will be issued a citation for this and a thorough
understanding reached by both parties to ensure this regulation is followed to
the letter.
   (B)   All vehicles used to collect, transport, and deposit waste in the
county’s landfill may be required upon request to complete admission forms
giving the name and address of the owner of the vehicle, the source and type of
waste to be deposited, and the weight and size of the vehicle.
   (C)   All vehicles which are not self-unloading shall arrive at the county’s
landfill no later than one hour before the close of the normal operating day.
Vehicles which are not self-unloading will be subject to control by the
Landfill Supervisor so as to minimize vehicle congestion and provide easy
access to the fill site for self-unloading vehicles.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  RESTRICTIONS, PROHIBITIONS, AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No open burning of materials deposited in the landfill(s) will be
permitted except as authorized and supervised by the Landfill Supervisor. Waste
brought to the county’s landfill shall be observed and inspected for prohibited
materials. The hauler may be required to remove unacceptable materials at the
discretion of the Landfill Supervisor.
   (B)   The following shall not be acceptable for deposit in the landfill(s):
      (1)   Sludges and other semi-solid fluids;
      (2)   Containers containing unacceptable waste;
      (3)   Baled materials, rolls of wire, and other items which may cause
damage to the equipment used to operate the landfill;
      (4)   Logs and large limbs of six inches or more in diameter and more
than six feet in length;
      (5)   Truck bodies and large farm machinery;
      (6)   Poison of any nature;
      (7)   Explosives of any kind;
      (8)   Nuclear waste or waste containing radioactive substances;
      (9)   Non-automotive equipment larger than household appliances;
      (10)   Burning materials of any kind;
      (11)   No stumps heavier than 200 pounds;
      (12)   No horses or cows or large quantities of animals or poultry;
      (13)   No liquid wastes unless approved by the Supervisor; or
      (14)   No herbicides or pesticides.
   (C)   Other general regulations are as follows.
      (1)   Absolutely no scavenging will be allowed on this site.
      (2)   Containers will be placed at the entrance so that during closed
hours these can be utilized for small amounts of waste.
      (3)   Non-residents of the county or firms or contract haulers who
service non-residents of the county are not permitted to use the landfill.
      (4)   Persons or firms not complying with these rules will be prosecuted
and if necessary barred from use of this facility.
      (5)   It shall be the responsibility of the hauler to indicate if he or
she is hauling matter which requires special handling, such as spoiled foods,
animal carcasses, or waste which requires immediate covering, and it shall be
the duty of the site operator to either have this accomplished or do so himself
or herself.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or agency to
litter or cause litter of trash or garbage outside of any metal container for
trash or garbage disposal owned or maintained by the County Solid Waste
Department. To litter or cause litter of trash or garbage outside of any metal
disposal container shall include the dumping or placing of trash or garbage on
the top or outside area of such container.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or agency to
place trash or garbage, other than household trash or garbage, in any refuse
container owned or maintained by the County Solid Waste Department. All trash
or garbage that is not household refuse shall be deposited at a large container
site or the sanitary landfill.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, agency, or
corporation to place trash or garbage or any other type of solid waste which
may constitute a nuisance or health hazard within the bounds of the county
other than in an approved sanitary landfill or solid waste container.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974; Res. passed 2-3-1975; Res. passed 10-6-1975)  Penalty,
see §
51.99
COLLECTION SYSTEM
§ 51.20  RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION.
   Residential collection of household waste will be accomplished by placing
metal containers at strategically located places in the county. These sites
will be located according to the number of households, highway intersections,
stores, churches, community buildings, and the like. In order to assure quick
and efficient pickup service, each particular location, type, and size of
container shall be determined by a duly authorized representative of the Solid
Waste Division of the county.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.21  SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS, AND SIMILAR INSTITUTIONS.
   The schools, hospitals, and similar institutions in the county will be
required to purchase the containers of adequate size for the disposal of their
refuse. The containers shall be of sufficient size so as to accommodate their
needs on a two pickup per week schedule.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.22  INCORPORATED TOWNS WITH A POPULATION OF LESS THAN 1,000.
   (A)   The town will be responsible for purchasing the containers and for the
site locations of the containers. These containers must be of adequate size so
as to accommodate the needs of the town on a two pickup per week schedule.
There will be a fee for this service as posted in §
51.40.
   (B)   The Solid Waste Department may also provide roll-off container service
to incorporated towns, regardless of population size, pursuant to the rules of
“industries” below.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974; Res. passed 6-6-1978)
§ 51.23  BUSINESSES AND SMALL INDUSTRIES.
   (A)   Businesses and small industries will be responsible for purchasing
their containers and for site locations.
   (B)   The containers shall be of sufficient size so as to accommodate the
needs of the businesses on a two pickup per week schedule.
   (C)   There will be a fee charged for this pickup service, as posted in §
51.41.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.24  INDUSTRIES.
   (A)   Industries generating an amount of waste large enough to require a
roll-off container system will be responsible for purchasing the compactor and
the container and for building a foundation for the compactor, and the
container shall mate with the county’s roll-off system.
   (B)   The size of the container will be determined by the industry and a
representative of the Solid Waste Division.
   (C)   The number of pickups will be determined at this particular time.
   (D)   The number of pickups will be determined which will best fit the
pickup system schedule of the roll-off containers in the county. There will be
a fee for this service, which is posted in §
51.42.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.25  ARTICLES LARGER THAN HOUSEHOLD REFUSE.
   (A)   For the convenience of those citizens not living near the landfill,
there will be open containers of 40-cubic yard capacity placed in the county in
strategic areas for the purpose of collecting large household waste such as
refrigerators, stoves, furniture, and the like.
   (B)   Automobiles and large machinery shall not be placed in these
containers but shall be carried to the landfill.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
RATE SCHEDULE
§ 51.40  INCORPORATED TOWNS WITH A POPULATION OF LESS THAN 1,000.
   The rate will be on the 2010, or most recent, census at $5 per person
annually, payable annually.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.41  BUSINESSES AND SMALL INDUSTRIES.
   Rates shall be based on two pickups per week, payable monthly or annually as
follows.
 
Dimensions              Amount
4-cubic yard containers $10 per month/$120 annually
6-cubic yard containers $15 per month/$180 annually
8-cubic yard containers $20 per month/$240 annually
 
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.42  INDUSTRIES.
   For industries with roll-off containers, the fee will be $0.50 per cubic
yard or container capacity per pickup. This will be billed at the end of the
month for the number of pickups that have been made for the month.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.43  CONTAINER RENTAL.
   If an industry or business elects to rent the container rather than to
purchase it, the rental charge will be the cost of the container, plus 6%
interest, amortized over 36 months, which will be the cost per month for the
rental of the container. This charge will be made in addition to the regular
pickup fee stated previously.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.44  DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   For delinquent accounts, there will be a charge of $1 per month. If the
account is not paid within 60 days, the service will be discontinued. Upon
removing the service, the account has to be paid in full.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   If any person or business organization shall violate any section of this
chapter, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $50, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, and that each day’s
continuing violation is a separate and distinct offense as provided in G.S. §
153A-123.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS
      
92.   NOISE
      
93.   NON-SMOKING POLICY
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Killing or trapping bears
Animal Control
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   General duties of Animal Control Department
   
90.17   Cruelty to animals
   
90.18   Animal abandonment
   
90.19   Tethering
   
90.20   Luring, enticing, seizing, molesting, or teasing an animal
   
90.21   Reclaim by owner or keeper
   
90.22   Destruction or adoption of unreclaimed dogs and cats
   
90.23   Procedure with respect to reclaim or adoption of an unvaccinated dog or
cat
   
90.24   Immediate placement for adoption or destruction of owner surrendered
animals
   
90.25   Destruction of wounded, diseased, or unweaned animals
   
90.26   Keeping stray animals; requirements, failure to surrender
   
90.27   Animal nuisance
   
90.28   Collar and identification
   
90.29   Allowing livestock to run at large
   
90.30   Domestic fowl running at large
   
90.31   Dangerous dogs
   
90.32   Rabies control (G.S. § 130A-185)
   
90.33   Interference with enforcement of subchapter
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Livestock Operations, see
Ch. 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  KILLING OR TRAPPING BEARS.
   In the county, it shall be unlawful for any person to take, trap, kill, or
attempt to take, trap, or kill bears at any time.
(Ord. passed 10-6-1975)  Penalty, see §
90.99
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 90.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The casting away or leaving of an animal with no reasonable
intention to reclaim it, thereby making it available for appropriation by
others or by the county.
   ADOPTION. The act of acquiring an animal from the animal shelter by means of
written agreement and payment for pet.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or non-domestic, but does not
include humans.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The County Animal Control Department responsible for
enforcing state and county animal control laws and ordinances.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person hired by the county to work in the County
Animal Control Department to enforce state and local laws and ordinances.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all dogs and cats subject to impounding in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   AT LARGE. Off of the owner’s property and not under the control of the
owner, or another individual, either by leash, cord, chain, fence, or other
means of restraint. Dogs are not considered to be AT LARGE when they are
assisting persons who are lawfully hunting.
   CAT. Any domestic feline species.
   COUNTY. Beaufort County.
   DANGEROUS DOG. An unprovoked dog that does bodily harm to a person on public
property or private property, a dog that is owned primarily or in part for the
purpose of dog fighting, a dog that is trained for dog fighting, an unprovoked
and unrestrained dog that chases or approaches a person on a street, sidewalk,
or public property in a terrorizing fashion or attitude of attack, or a dog
that has killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not on
the real property of the owner of the dog.
   DANGEROUS DOG BOARD. A board consisting of at least three of its five County
Commissioner appointed members, to hear and decide appeals from dangerous dog
determinations.
   DOG. Any domestic canine species.
   FULLY-ENCLOSED PEN. A pen with four secured sides, minimum of six feet high,
with a secure top attached to the sides and a secure bottom or floor attached
to the sides of the structure or the sides must be embedded in the ground no
less than two feet and the sides must be turned under the pen area for no less
than 18 inches. The pen entry door must be secured with a keyed lock to prevent
unauthorized entry or escape. The length and width of the pen must be large
enough to allow the animal daily vigorous exercise.
   INTACT MALE. Any male dog or cat which has not received a veterinarian
procedure to prevent reproduction.
   KENNEL. Any person, group of persons, partnership, or corporation engaged in
boarding, breeding, selling, or buying of animals.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but shall not be limited to, equine animals, bovine
animals, sheep, goats, llamas, and swine.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male dog or cat that has received a veterinarian
procedure to prevent reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding,
harboring, or taking care of any animal. The OWNER is responsible for the care,
actions, and behavior of his or her animals.
   RECLAIM. The act of reacquiring an animal from the animal shelter by the
owner of the animal. An owner will have an exclusive right to RECLAIM in the
first hours of impoundment. After 72 hours have elapsed, the owner may still
RECLAIM if the animal has not been adopted. After 120 hours, the owner may
still RECLAIM if the animal has not been adopted or euthanized.
   RESTRAINT. A dog or cat is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this
subchapter if it is:
      (1)   Controlled by means of a chain, leash, or other like device;
      (2)   On or within a vehicle being driven or parked;
      (3)   Within a secured enclosure; or
      (4)   Within the dwelling house of the owner or keeper.
   SHELTER. A structure that includes a secure solid top, sides, and bottom
that allows the pet to seek refuge from nature’s elements including but not
limited to cold weather, hot weather, rain, snow, or sun.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female dog or cat that has received a veterinarian
procedure that prevents reproduction.
   STRAY. Any dog or cat that is running at large, uncared for, homeless, or
unwanted, that is not wearing a collar with identification or current rabies
tag and/or the owner is not known.
   UNPROVOKED ATTACK. Occurs when a dog attacks, bites, or inflicts injury upon
a person or domestic animal without being teased, molested, provoked, beaten,
tortured, or otherwise harmed.
   UNSPAYED FEMALE. Any female dog or cat that has not received a veterinarian
procedure to prevent reproduction.
   VETERINARIAN HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and
injuries of animals.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)
§ 90.16  GENERAL DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   The Animal Control Department shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Enforcing, in this county, all state and county laws, ordinances, and
resolutions relating to the care, custody, and control of animals;
   (B)   Assisting in the enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to
animals and especially with regard to vaccination of animals against rabies and
the confinement or controlling of dangerous dogs;
   (C)   Canvassing the county for stray animals, unidentified at large
animals, unvaccinated animals, and other animals that may be dangerous or a
health hazard;
   (D)   Investigating cruelty or abuse with regard to animals;
   (E)   The operation of the county animal shelter; and
   (F)   Accurate and detailed records including:
      (1)   Impoundment and disposition of all dogs and cats coming into the
animal shelter;
      (2)   Bite cases, violations, complaints, and investigation of same;
      (3)   All monies belonging to the county which were derived from
impoundment fees, penalties, and sale of animals; and
      (4)   All other records deemed necessary by the County Board of
Commissioners and/or the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)
§ 90.17  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to fail to provide his or her
animal or animals with proper shelter 24 hours a day, water 24 hours a day, and
sufficient and wholesome food on a regular basis to keep his or her animal or
animals healthy and comfortable. The owner must also provide the opportunity
for vigorous daily exercise, provide veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering, and provide humane care and treatment.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18  ANIMAL ABANDONMENT.
   No owner, possessor, or person having charge or custody of an animal shall
willfully and without justifiable excuse abandon an animal.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  TETHERING.
   Animals may be tethered to a stationary object only if the conditions below
are met.
   (A)   A tether shall be equipped with a swivel on both ends.
   (B)   A tether shall be a minimum of ten feet in length and shall be made of
either metal chain or coated steel cable.
   (C)   Tethers shall be attached to a buckle-type collar or harness and under
no circumstances shall the tether itself be placed directly around the animal’s
neck. Tethers shall not be used in conjunction with training collars such as
choke or pinch-style collars.
   (D)   The weight of the tether shall not exceed 10% of the total body weight
of the animal but shall be of sufficient strength to prevent breakage.
   (E)   The tether by design and placement shall allow the animal a reasonable
and unobstructed range of motion without the possibility of entanglement,
strangulation, or other injury. The tether shall allow the animal access to
adequate food, water, and shelter.
   (F)   An animal must be four months of age or older to be tethered.
   (G)   Only one animal shall be attached to a single tether.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20  LURING, ENTICING, SEIZING, MOLESTING, OR TEASING AN ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out of an
enclosure or off the property of its owner or keeper, or to seize, molest, or
tease any animal while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper
or while the animal is on the property of its owner or keeper.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  RECLAIM BY OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   The owner of a dog or cat impounded under this subchapter will have
exclusive rights to reclaim the dog or cat and regain possession thereof,
within the first three business days (72 hours) after impoundment as required
by this subchapter.
   (B)   The owner at the time of reclaim must provide proof of rabies
vaccination or proof of ownership and pay applicable fees.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall have no application with the
respect to dogs and cats surrendered by the owner or keeper to County Animal
Control for the immediate adoption, sale, or destruction as provided for in §
90.22.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)
§ 90.22  DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNRECLAIMED DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   If an impounded dog or cat is not reclaimed by the owner within three
business days (72 hours) as described in §
90.21, it may be sold, euthanized in a humane manner, or shall become the
property of the animal shelter and offered for adoption to a responsible adult
who is willing to comply with this subchapter and with policies promulgated by
the county.
   (B)   No dog or cat which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray
or unclaimed by its owner or keeper shall be allowed to be adopted from the
animal shelter during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked pursuant
to this subchapter, except by special authorization of the County Health
Director.
   (C)   Any dog or cat that exhibits fierce, dangerous, or aggressive behavior
will not be offered for adoption.
   (D)   (1)   All intact males and unspayed females adopted from the county
animal shelter shall be either spayed or neutered within 30 days after their
adoption. In addition to the established adoption fee, Animal Control shall
require from the adopter a spay/neuter deposit of $30 for cats and $50 for dogs
to ensure that spaying or neutering is obtained.
      (2)   When written proof is returned to Animal Control stating that the
required spaying or neutering has been performed by a licensed veterinarian,
the spay/neuter deposit will be sent to the veterinarian who performed the
spaying or neutering.
      (3)   A person who fails to have the adopted pet spayed or neutered
within the specified time to arrange for the neutering of an intact male or the
spaying of an unspayed female adopted from the animal shelter, forfeits the
spay/neuter deposit and shall be in violation of this subchapter. For dogs and
cats under six months of age, the time limit will vary according to its age.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT TO RECLAIM OR ADOPTION OF AN UNVACCINATED DOG
OR CAT.
   (A)   Unless proof of current rabies vaccination can be furnished, every
person who either adopts or reclaims a dog or cat from Animal Control will be
given a proof of rabies vaccine notice at the time the dog or cat is reclaimed
or adopted. This notice will have a date affixed stating the maximum time limit
allowed to take the dog or cat to the veterinarian of such person’s choice for
rabies vaccination. The time limit for dogs and cats four months and older will
be 72 hours, with Sundays and holidays excluded. For dogs and cats under four
months, the time limit will vary according to its age as medically described.
   (B)   The proof of rabies vaccine notice will be completed by the
veterinarian and returned to Animal Control, by the owner, within 72 hours.
   (C)   Payment for rabies vaccines provided for in this section will be the
responsibility of the person reclaiming or adopting the dog or cat.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  IMMEDIATE PLACEMENT FOR ADOPTION OR DESTRUCTION OF OWNER SURRENDERED
ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat surrendered by its owner to Animal Control may be
immediately placed for adoption or humanely euthanized by Animal Control when:
      (1)   The person surrendering such animal provides verification of
ownership of said animal;
      (2)   The owner directs in writing that the dog or cat be placed for
adoption or humanely euthanized; and
      (3)   The owner affirmatively represents in writing that he or she is in
fact the legal owner of said dog or cat.
   (B)   Upon receiving said assurances, Animal Control may rely on the same,
and place said dog or cat for adoption, or euthanize as it sees fit. The
waiting periods provided in §
90.23 shall not apply to immediate adoption or destruction as provided for in
this section.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)
§ 90.25  DESTRUCTION OF WOUNDED, DISEASED, OR UNWEANED ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any dog or cat
seized or impounded which is badly wounded, diseased (not a rabies suspect), or
unweaned and has no identification shall be euthanized immediately in a humane
manner. If the dog or cat has identification, Animal Control shall attempt to
notify the owner or keeper before disposing of such dog or cat. If the owner or
keeper cannot be reached readily, and the dog or cat is suffering, Animal
Control may euthanize the dog or cat at its discretion in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)
§ 90.26  KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS; REQUIREMENTS, FAILURE TO SURRENDER.
   (A)   Stray animals can be a source of rabies or other diseases since the
animals’ history is not known. The animal may also be lost from its rightful
owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to knowingly and
intentionally harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement, or otherwise
allow to remain on his or her property, any dog or cat which does not belong to
him or her, unless he or she has, within 72 hours from the time such dog or cat
came into his or her possession, done one of the following:
      (1)   Notified the animal’s owner, Animal Control, or person duly
authorized by Animal Control. Upon receiving such notice, Animal Control shall
take such dog or cat and place it in the animal shelter and shall deal with it
in accordance with the Animal Control policy; or
      (2)   Become the owner or keeper of the dog or cat by taking it to a
veterinarian for a rabies vaccination, a check for disease, and notify Animal
Control.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27  ANIMAL NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess, or maintain
an animal in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance or a nuisance to
neighbors. By way of example and not of limitation, the following acts or
actions of an owner, harborer, or possessor of an animal are hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and are therefore unlawful if substantiated by Animal
Control:
      (1)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps
at, attacks, or barks at pedestrians, joggers, or dogs walked on a leash by
owners, bicycles, or vehicles;
      (2)   Permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone other than
its owner including but not limited to, turning over garbage containers or
damaging gardens, flowers, or vegetables;
      (3)   Maintaining property that is offensive, annoying, or dangerous to
the public health, safety, or welfare of the community because of the number,
type, variety, density, or location of the animals on the property;
      (4)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased or dangerous to the public
health;
      (5)   Allowing unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where
the dog or cat is kept or harbored; or
      (6)   Failing to confine to a secure enclosure or building a female dog
while in estrus.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of anyone reporting an alleged nuisance under
this section to reveal his or her identity to Animal Control or the
investigating law enforcement agency. Anonymous reports of alleged nuisances
under this section shall not be investigated solely on the basis of the
anonymous report.
   (C)   Upon investigating an alleged nuisance, the complaining witness must
be willing to testify in court to the alleged nuisance. The complainant must
also sign a copy of the investigative report. If the complainant is unwilling
to do so, the investigation may be dismissed and no further action taken.
   (D)   The determination of a nuisance under this section is solely at the
discretion of the county.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28  COLLAR AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Every owner is required to see that his or her dog is wearing a collar
with the owner’s name and address stamped on or otherwise firmly attached to
it.
   (B)   Such collar shall be worn at all times, unless the dog is accompanied
by the owner or his or her agent, or is engaged in hunting or other sport or
activity where a collar might endanger the dog’s safety.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29  ALLOWING LIVESTOCK TO RUN AT LARGE.
   No person shall allow his or her livestock to run at large at any time.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30  DOMESTIC FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or keeping any turkeys, geese,
chickens, ducks, or other domestic fowls to permit them to run at large.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31  DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Declaring a dog dangerous (G.S. § 67-4.1). The County Animal Control
Officers may declare a dog to be a dangerous dog when:
      (1)   An unprovoked dog does bodily harm to a person on public property
or private property;
      (2)   A dog is owned primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting, or a dog is trained for dog fighting;
      (3)   An unprovoked and unrestrained dog chases or approaches a person on
a street, sidewalk, or public property in a terrorizing fashion or attitude of
attack; or
      (4)   A dog that has killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic
animal when not on the real property of the owner of the dog.
   (B)   Right to appeal to Board. Upon declaration that a dog is a dangerous
dog, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner in writing of the
owner’s right to appeal. The owner has three days to appeal in writing to the
designated Dangerous Dog Board member the decision made by the County Animal
Control Officer.
   (C)   Hearing. If an appeal is submitted by the owner, a dangerous dog
hearing will be scheduled within ten days. Three of the five Board members must
be present at an appeal hearing for the hearing to take place. The case will be
heard by the County Dangerous Dog Board with the victtm(s) and the owner(s)
present. The County Dangerous Dog Board will make a final ruling determining
that the dog is dangerous or not dangerous at that time.
   (D)   Dismissal. If the victim or owner does not attend the hearing, the
ruling shall go in favor of the attending party. If neither party attends, the
case will be dismissed.
   (E)   Right to appeal to County Attorney or Manager. If the dog is
determined dangerous by the Board, the owners of the dangerous dog may then
submit an appeal to the County Attorney or Manager requesting that this ruling
be heard in the Superior Court de novo.
   (F)   Confinement of a dog declared dangerous. The owner will be notified in
writing to confine the dangerous dog. The owner is to restrain the dangerous
dog in one or more of the following manners:
      (1)   Confined indoors where access is limited to the owner only;
      (2)   Confined in a fully-enclosed and key locked pen with four secure
sides a secure top and a secure bottom to prevent any unlawful entry and to
prevent escape; and/or
      (3)   On a leash and a muzzle and in control of an adult at all times
when not otherwise confined.
   (G)   Owner’s obligations.
      (1)   The owner shall have 30 days from the date of notification to
provide an adequate and approved pen or structure.
      (2)   During this time, the dangerous dog shall be under constant
restraint on the owner’s property or may be seized by Animal Control and held
at the owner’s expense until an adequate and approved pen or structure is
completed.
   (H)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The owner of a dangerous dog must at his or her expense:
         (a)   Meet all requirements for keeping any dog including licensing
and rabies vaccination;
         (b)   Must have the said dangerous dog micro-chipped with valid
information and verification given to Animal Control;
         (c)   Display a sign on his or her property warning that there is a
dangerous dog on the property. The sign shall be clearly visible to a person
approaching the entry to the residence and be no less than eight and one-half
inches by 11 inches in size;
         (d)   Notify Animal Control of any change in status of the dangerous
dog within 24 hours, such as change of residence, or if the dog has died; and
         (e)   Allow Animal Control Officers to inspect the owner’s premises
where the dangerous dog is confined.
      (2)   If the owner of a dangerous dog is unwilling or unable to comply
with divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) above for keeping of such an animal,
he or she must have the animal immediately, humanely euthanized by Animal
Control or a licensed veterinarian.
      (3)   No dangerous dog so declared shall be offered for sale, adoption,
or be given away.
   (I)   General exclusions. These rules and regulations under this section
shall not apply to:
      (1)   A dog used by a public law enforcement agency for law enforcement
purposes;
(G.S. § 67-4.1(b)(1))
      (2)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained
by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog,
or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner
or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (4)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   (J)   Violations. If at any time the dangerous dog is not confined as set
forth in divisions (F) and (G) above, the owner shall be fined in accordance
with §
90.99 and the said dangerous dog shall be seized by Animal Control or turned
into Animal Control by the owner and held for a ten-day waiting period
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. During this ten-day waiting period,
the owner may request a hearing to show cause in the Superior Court. If no
appeal is made within the ten-day waiting period, said dog shall be humanely
euthanized.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32  RABIES CONTROL (G.S. § 130A-185).
   (A)   Any dog, cat, or ferret over four months of age must be vaccinated
against rabies.
(G.S. § 130A-185)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (C)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by the state law.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33  INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or
molest the Animal Control Officer or veterinarians in the performance of any
duty authorized by this subchapter, or to seek to release any animal in the
custody of such officers, except as otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal
under observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to
rabies, or any animal biting a human, or to remove such animal from the county
without written permission from Animal Control and the County Health Director.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully file a
false complaint with the Animal Control Department.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not in excess of $200
or imprisoned not in excess of 60 days or both fined and imprisoned.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of any provision of §§
90.15 through
90.33 shall be punishable by a civil penalty or a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $500 in accordance with this section and/or a Class 1 misdemeanor.
Each day’s violation of §§
90.15 through
90.33 shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   The civil penalties assessed by citations shall be in accordance
with the tables in division (C)(5) below. The civil penalty table applies to
all violations that are enforced, regardless of any other method of enforcement
that may be additionally used. Each prior offense must be evidenced by the
issuance of a citation or a criminal conviction arising from a prior offense
before the next escalated penalty for subsequent offenses may be assessed.
Civil penalties shall only escalate when the same offense has been committed by
the same owner in the past. No offense occurring more than two years before the
current offense shall be considered. Each day that an ongoing violation
continues shall be considered a separate violation from any previous or
subsequent violation, and each separate violation may be the basis of a
citation.
      (3)   A civil penalty is to be paid to the County Animal Control within
the time frame stated on the citation. If payment is not received within the
time frame stated on the citation, criminal charges may be filed for the
violation that the defendant was cited for.
      (4)   Sections
90.15 through
90.33 do not supersede any ordinance found to be more restrictive regarding
animal regulations including but not limited to homeowners or subdivision
covenants regulating same.
      (5)   The following are citable offenses and costs for §§
90.15 through
90.33.
         (a)   Section
90.17 Cruelty to animals.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (b)   Section
90.18 Animal abandonment.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (c)   Section
90.19 Tethering.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (d)   Section
90.20 Luring, enticing, seizing, molesting, or teasing an animal.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (e)   Section
90.26 Keeping stray animals; requirements, failure to surrender.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (f)   Section
90.27 Animal nuisance.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (g)   Section
90.28 Collar and identification.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (h)   Section
90.29 Allowing livestock to run at large.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (i)   Section
90.30 Domestic fowl running at large.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (j)   Section
90.31 Dangerous dogs.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (k)   Section
90.32 Rabies control (G.S. § 130A-185).
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
         (l)   Section
90.33 Interference with enforcement of subchapter.
 
First offense  $50
Second offense $75
Third offense  $150
Fourth offense $250
Fifth offense  $500
 
(Ord. passed 10-6-1975; Ord. passed 9-9-2013)
CHAPTER 91:  LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Scope and purpose
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Administration and interpretation
   
91.05   General requirements and permits
   
91.06   Appeals
   
91.07   Facility closure
   
91.08   Financial responsibility
   
91.09   Registration and transfer of ownership
   
91.10   Inspections
 
   
91.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Intensive Livestock Operations
§ 91.01  TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Beaufort County Ordinance Governing
Intensive Livestock Operations”.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.02  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter applies to intensive livestock operations as that term is
defined herein. This chapter is enacted by the Board of Commissioners for the
county (“Board”) pursuant to G.S. § 153A-121, which provision authorizes the
Board to define and regulate conditions detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of the county.
   (B)   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of regulating and controlling
intensive livestock operations, including:
      (1)   The risk of surface and/or groundwater and well water contamination
by the run-off, spill, or leaching of animal wastes or other pollutants
generated in the ordinary course of operations of intensive livestock
operations;
      (2)   Communicable disease transmission;
      (3)   Odor;
      (4)   Nutrient deposition by way of the release of gases such as ammonia,
sulfide, and methane;
      (5)   The spread of disease vectors such as mosquitoes, flies, and
rodents;
      (6)   The improper disposal of dead livestock;
      (7)   The proliferation of harmful microorganisms in the county’s
waterways, and the resulting death of aquatic flora and fauna; and/or
      (8)   The loss of value to and loss of enjoyment of homes, businesses,
and property.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL WASTE. Livestock or poultry excreta or a mixture of excreta with
animal feed, bedding, litter, carcasses, or other materials, and livestock and
poultry carcasses.
   ANIMAL WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. A combination of structural and
nonstructural practices which are designed to collect, treat, store, or apply
animal waste to the land such that no discharge of pollutants occurs to surface
waters of the state by any means except as a result of a storm event more
severe than the 25-year, 24-hour storm.
   APPROVED ANIMAL WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan to properly collect, store,
treat, and/or apply animal waste to the land in an environmentally-safe manner
and approved according to the procedures established in 15A North Carolina
Administrative Code (“NCAC”) 2H.0217(a)(l)(H).
   BCHD. Beaufort County Health Department.
   DAQ. The Division of Air Quality within the State Department of
Environmental and Natural Resources.
   DWQ. The Division of Water Quality within the State Department of
Environmental and Natural Resources.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the BCHD or his or her designee.
   GROUNDWATERS. Those waters as defined in 15A NCAC 2L.
   INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS or ILO. Any enclosure, pen, feedlot,
building, or group of buildings intended for the confined feeding, breeding,
raising, or hold of animals and either specifically designed as a confinement
area in which animal waste may accumulate or where the concentration of animals
is such that an established vegetative cover cannot be maintained and contains
or is designed to contain sufficient number of animals on site to equal or
exceed the following threshold levels:
      (1)   One hundred head of cattle;
      (2)   Seventy-five horses;
      (3)   Two hundred and fifty swine;
      (4)   One thousand sheep or goats; or
      (5)   Thirty thousand birds.
   NEW ANIMAL WASTE TREATMENT WORKS AND DISPOSAL/UTILIZATION SYSTEM. Facilities
that are constructed and operated at the site where no ILO existed previously
or where an ILO has been abandoned or inoperative for a period of six months or
more.
   OFF-SITE DRINKING WATER SOURCE. Any privately- or publicly-owned well, from
which drinking water is obtained lying outside the boundaries of the property
on which an ILO is proposed.
   OPERATION. From the date on which the threshold level of a particular type
of animal is on-site, regardless of whether that number may fall below the
threshold level on any later date.
   OPERATOR or OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, limited liability company,
or any other entity which owns or operates an ILO located within the county.
OPERATORS shall include those entities, which manage or contract for the
management of an ILO.
   SURFACE WATERS. All waters of the state as defined in G.S. § 143-212, except
underground waters.
   UNDER CONSTRUCTION. A proposed ILO must possess the following attributes:
      (1)   Having acquired fee simple title in the real property for the
proposed ILO by deed recorded at or before 5:00 p.m. of the effective date of
this chapter in the County Register of Deeds;
      (2)   Having obtained all necessary permits from applicable federal,
state, and local agencies, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Any permit required from the State Division of Water Quality,
Department of Environmental and Natural Resources; and
         (b)   Any building permit, electrical permit, and/or certificate of
occupancy, as the same are required by the county.
      (3)   Having incurred substantial expenditures or contractual obligations
in good faith reliance on any permit lawfully issued by the county or the
state.
   WASTE STORAGE FACILITY. The location used to store animal waste and/or
animal waste by-products for at least six months out of any 12-month period.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.04  ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Administration of rules. The Director shall administer the regulations
established by this chapter. The Director shall, as needed, obtain technical
advice and assistance from any county, state, including state university,
federal agencies, or any other individuals or organizations with applicable
expertise.
   (B)   Chapter imposes minimum requirements, exception. In their
interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to
be minimum requirements, except where they are stated to be maximum
requirements.
   (C)   Conflicts between ordinance and other laws. Wherever any provisions of
this chapter and any other statute or requirement of law shall impose
overlapping or contradictory regulations, the provision that is more
restrictive or imposes higher standards or requirements shall govern, unless it
is the clear intent of a law of superior authority that it shall limit the
restrictiveness of regulations in a particular area, in which case that
limitation shall control.
   (D)   Rules do not affect civil remedies. It is not the intent of this
chapter that it shall restrict or impair the right of any private or public
individual or entity to bring any legal or equitable action for redress against
nuisances, hazards, or injuries to persons or property.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.05  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Compliance with existing state laws and regulations.
      (1)   No person or entity shall construct, operate, or expand any ILO
except in conformity with this chapter and 15A NCAC 2H.0200, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   To facilitate the administration of this chapter in conjunction
with state and federal specifications, the Director is authorized and directed
to work and communicate with the State DWQ, State DAQ, Natural Resources
Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (“NRCS”),
County Cooperative Extension, and the County Soil and Water Conservation
District. The Director shall undertake any actions necessary to coordinate
local involvement in all procedures of the DWQ, DAQ, and the NRCS relative to
new ILOs and their animal waste management systems in the county.
      (3)   Operating facilities as of the date of adoption of this chapter and
non-operating facilities that are under construction as that phrase is defined
herein, are exempt from BCHD setback and closure rules contained herein.
      (4)   Except as recited herein, an expansion of an existing ILO must be
accomplished in accordance with the requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   ILO construction or enlargement permit.
      (1)   All new ILOs shall obtain an ILO construction permit (“permit”)
from the BCHD. The permit shall be required prior to the construction of the
facilities, as applicable. A permit may be issued by the BCHD only after
certification by the NRCS that the proposed construction or expansion meets all
NRCS and state requirements for design and siting.
      (2)   On or immediately after adoption hereof, in addition to the
requirements of division (B)(1) above, no new or expanded ILO shall begin
construction without first meeting the requirements in Appendix A to this
chapter. Two copies of the supporting documents and information described in
Appendix A to this chapter shall be supplied to the BCHD.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the information required in Appendix A to this
chapter, and in consultation with DWQ, DAQ, NRCS, and the Beaufort Soil and
Water Conservation District (“BSWCD”), the BCHD shall review the information.
The BCHD shall review the proposed construction relative to the siting and
design requirements contained herein, and verify that the proposed ILO meets
standards and specifications as certified by NRCS. Action shall be taken by the
BCHD on the information required by division (B)(2) above within 30 days from
receipt. All denials of permits shall be in writing and be supported by written
findings of fact.
      (4)   An approved groundwater monitoring system will be required for all
new and expanded ILOs to prevent contamination or to ensure the quality of a
drinking water source.
      (5)   Failure to comply with all applicable sections of this chapter may
result in revocation of a permit. Prior to any revocation action, the permit
holder shall receive written notification from the Director of the violation
and be allowed 30 days from receipt of the written notice to correct the
violation. If the problem is not timely corrected and the Director intends to
revoke a permit, the Director shall notify the permit holder in writing of the
intention to revoke and the permit holder’s appeal rights under G.S. § 130A-24
(b). If no timely appeal is taken by the permit holder, the Director may revoke
the permit. If an appeal is timely taken, the procedure on appeal shall be
governed by G.S. § 130A-24, and the Director shall bear the burden of proof by
a preponderance of the evidence in support of the revocation action.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  APPEALS.
   An appeal from any permitting decision of the Director shall be in writing
to the BCHD. Appealing parties have 30 days from the date of notification of
the permitting decision within which to appeal. An appeal shall be perfected by
filing written notice, with reasons therefore, with the County Board of Health,
and the matter shall be placed on the agenda for the next meeting of the Board
of Health following notice of the appeal. If no meeting is scheduled within 45
days following the notice of appeal, a special meeting of the Board of Health
shall be held within that 45-day period. Except as amended herein, the appeals
process shall be in accordance with G.S. § 130A-24.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.07  FACILITY CLOSURE.
   (A)   In addition to the information required by §
91.05, an owner of a new ILO shall submit to BCHD a closure plan for the waste
and waste system storage/treatment facilities. This plan shall be prepared by a
technical specialist designated by the state and the Conservation Commission.
Lagoon closure shall include the removal of the sludge in the lagoon and its
disposal by proper land application at agronomic rates or by some other legally
permissible method. Lagoon closure shall also include the grading and sloping
of the walls of the lagoon and the seeding of the same area. Lagoons shall not
be filled or otherwise closed until an inspection by the BCHD determines sludge
has been removed and properly disposed of. Alternative methods of closure, such
as regaining use of the lagoon for a pond or for wildlife use, shall be
considered by BCHD on a case-by-case basis provided such other requirements set
forth in this section are satisfied. Closure may be postponed with approval of
the BCHD for a period of 24 months if the property is posted for sale.
   (B)   All wastes from the feeding operation and its waste control system
must be removed and disposed of on land or in some other manner which is
legally permissible as soon as practicable and in accordance with the approved
plan in order to promote and protect public health.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.08  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   In order to guarantee proper closure of an ILO’s lagoons and
facilities, to ensure proper clean-up of spills or releases of animal waste
beyond land application as permitted, to remedy or abate violations of this
chapter, and to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
of the county, the owner of the ILO shall execute an agreement with the county
providing for adequate funds for the proper closure of lagoons, proper clean-up
of spills, and prompt abatement of any violations of this chapter. To secure
this agreement, the owner shall provide a surety bond in an amount of $16,000
per acre of waste lagoon surface area or $2,000 per building for dry waste
systems. Said surety bond shall be from a surety bonding company authorized to
do business in the state, payable to the county, the duration of which shall be
until such time as the Director certifies in writing that closure is properly
completed.
   (B)   If the Director reasonably determines that closure in accord with this
chapter has not occurred, or that the owner has failed to promptly clean up any
spill or abate any violation of this chapter, the Director shall notify the
owner in writing of the determination. Within 30 days of the receipt of this
notice, the owner shall deliver to the Director (for the benefit of the county)
sufficient funds to complete closure, clean-up spills, or remedy or abate
violations of this chapter; provided that if the owner disputes the Director’s
determination, it shall deposit the funds necessary to complete closure in an
escrow account where they shall remain until the dispute is resolved in
accordance with G.S. § 130A-24. Any excess funds available following execution
of this provision shall be returned to the owner as appropriate.
   (C)   Compliance with this section shall not limit the financial liability
of all owners or operators of an ILO for the costs of lagoon/facility closure
or any action necessary to avert a threat to the public health, for clean-up of
spills or releases, for abatement of violations of this chapter, or for damages
to property, persons, or resources of the state.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.09  REGISTRATION AND TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Upon request of the Director, the owners or operators of new and
existing ILOs shall submit to the Director the names and telephone numbers
(business and home) of the following individuals:
      (1)   All owners or operators, including all shareholders, partners, or
members of the ILO, as applicable; and
      (2)   An authorized agent or individual, whether or not an owner or
operator, who possesses management authority and resides within the county.
   (B)   Each time the ownership of title to the land on which the treatment
works and disposal/utilization system for animal waste from the ILO is
transferred, the new owner must notify the BCHD in writing within 60 days of
the transfer of ownership that the approved plan for closure has been read and
understood and that all provisions of the plan will be implemented.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.10  INSPECTIONS.
   The BCHD shall make inspections as necessary prior to the issuance of a
permit as described in this chapter. After permits are issued, operating
facilities may be inspected by representatives of BCHD provided that BCHD
provides 48 hours’ notification, for the purpose of determining continued
compliance with this chapter. In conducting inspections, the Director is fully
authorized to exercise the right of entry and administrative search provided in
G.S. §§ 130A-17 and 15-27.2. The BCHD shall take all reasonable precautions to
comply with disease prevention efforts when inspecting an ILO pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter subjects the offender to a civil penalty
of $250 for each day a violation exists. Those sums may be recovered by the
county in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
within 20 days of notification of a violation. Following receipt of
notification of a violation pursuant to this section, an offender does not pay
within 20 days of notification of a violation. Following receipt of
notification of a violation pursuant to this section, an offender commits an
additional and separate offense for each day the offender continues operation
of the subject ILO in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter may also be enforced by application for appropriate
injunction, order of abatement, or such other equitable relief as may be
appropriate under G.S. § 153A-123 or similar provision.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
APPENDIX A: INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS
Supporting documents and information required of ILOs located within the
county.
I. For new ILOs, the following documents and design plans shall be submitted by
the owner/operator to the BCHD.
A. Design plan and site plan. Documents shall demonstrate compliance with the
following setback/separation distances:
         1. Animal housing facilities and lagoons shall be located a minimum
distance of 2,640 feet from any occupied residence or off-site drinking water
source not owned by the owner of the ILO.
         2. The outer perimeter of a land area onto which waste is applied from
a lagoon that is a component of an ILO shall be located a minimum distance of
1,500 feet from any occupied residence or off-site drinking water source not
owned by the owner of the ILO.
         3. The outer perimeter of 100 feet of a land area onto which waste is
applied from a lagoon that is a component of a new ILO shall have a 50-foot
forested buffer located within that 100-foot perimeter from any boundary of
property on which an occupied residence is located not owned by the ILO.
         4. For new ILOs, the owner shall establish a 25-foot forested buffer
within the 100-foot buffer between the outer perimeter of a land area onto
which waste is applied from a lagoon that is a component of an ILO and any
perennial stream.
         5. For new ILOs, the owner shall provide for water control structures
at or near the ILO drainage outlet. All ditches and canals on the ILO shall
have a minimum of five feet of vegetation for ditch bank stabilization.
CHAPTER 92:  NOISE
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Unreasonably loud and disturbing noise
   
92.03   Enforcement
   
92.04   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish an effective means of
regulating and controlling sound and noise within the county to the ends that
the health, safety, and welfare of the population are promoted and maintained
through peace and good order, and the rights of individuals are not
unreasonably restricted.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 92.02  UNREASONABLY LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to make, permit, continue, or cause to be made or to
create any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise including sound amplification
in the county.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTURBING. Noise which is perceived by a person of ordinary
sensibilities as interrupting the normal peace and calm of the area.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION. Operate or allow the operation of any sound
amplification equipment so as to create sound levels exceeding 55 dBA or 65 dBC
between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. or exceeding 50 dBA or 60 dBC between 9:00 p.m.
and 9:00 a.m., as measured anywhere outside of the boundary line of the person
or persons making, permitting, or causing such noise. The foregoing limitations
on the operation of sound amplification equipment shall not apply to special
event permit issued by the county, the operation of horns, sirens, or other
emergency warning devices actually being used in emergency circumstances.
      UNREASONABLY LOUD. Noise which is substantially incompatible with the
time and location where created to the extent that it creates an actual or
imminent interference with peace or good order.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by injunction or other equitable relief by an
action brought in the general court of justice.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 92.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine up to $500 or imprisonment of 30
days or both fine and imprisonment. Each day on which any violation of this
chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate and distinct violation and
offense.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
CHAPTER 93:  NON-SMOKING POLICY
Section
   
93.01   Policy
   
93.02   Purpose
   
93.03   Authority
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Areas in which smoking and use of tobacco products and e-cigarettes are
prohibited
   
93.06   Implementation requirements
   
93.07   Signage
   
93.08   Public education
   
93.09   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  POLICY.
   The county prohibits smoking and the use of tobacco products in all county
buildings, vehicles, and within 50 feet of all county buildings. E-cigarettes
are prohibited in all county buildings.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide safe and healthy workplaces
in all county facilities for employees and for a safe and healthy environment
for the visiting general public.
   (B)   The county is committed to promoting healthy lifestyles throughout the
community, by encouraging individuals, especially county staff, to refrain from
smoking and/or the use of tobacco products and e-cigarettes.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.03  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to G.S. §§ 130A-498 and 153A-121(a).
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY BUILDING. A building owned, leased as lessor, or the area leased as
lessee and occupied by the county.
   COUNTY VEHICLE. A passenger-carrying vehicle owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by the county and assigned permanently or temporarily to its
employees, agencies, institutions, or facilities for official county business.
   E-CIGARETTE. Any electronic oral device, such as one composed of a heating
element, battery, and/or electronic circuit, which provides a vapor of nicotine
or any other substances, and the use or inhalation of which simulates smoking.
The term shall include any such device, whether manufactured, distributed,
marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, or under any other
product name or descriptor.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by the county, or who contracts with the
county or a third person to perform services for the county, or who otherwise
performs services for the county with or without compensation.
   GROUNDS. An unenclosed area owned, leased, or occupied by the county.
   SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that
is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component
part or accessory of a TOBACCO PRODUCT, including but not limited to
cigarettes; cigars; little cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated,
plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff
flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other chewing tobacco;
shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cutting and sweepings of tobacco; and other
kinds and forms of tobacco. A TOBACCO PRODUCT excludes any product that has
been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for such an approved
purpose.
   UNIVERSAL ‘NO SMOKING AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS PROHIBITED’ SYMBOL. Symbol
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette and a tobacco
product enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.05  AREAS IN WHICH SMOKING AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND E-CIGARETTES
ARE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In accordance with action of the Board of County Commissioners,
smoking and the use of tobacco products are prohibited:
      (1)   In any building owned, leased, or occupied, as defined in §
93.04 , by the county;
      (2)   In any county vehicle owned, leased, or controlled by the county;
and
      (3)   Within 50 feet around the perimeter of any buildings that are
owned, leased, or occupied by the county.
   (B)   E-cigarettes are prohibited in any building owned, leased, or
occupied, as defined in §
93.04 , by the county.
   (C)   Signage will be posted at each county building to inform employees and
the public of this policy.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The county shall post signs that meet all the requirements in §
93.07.
   (B)   The person in charge of the county building, vehicle, or grounds, or
his or her designee, shall direct a person who is smoking or using a tobacco
product in a prohibited area to cease and, if the person does not comply, shall
contact the County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.07  SIGNAGE.
   The signs required by §
93.06 must:
   (A)   State in English that smoking and the use of tobacco products are
prohibited within 50 feet and include the universal no smoking and use of
tobacco products prohibited symbol;
   (B)   Be of sufficient size to be clearly legible to a person of normal
vision and be conspicuously posted;
   (C)   Be posted at each county building to inform employees and the public
of the prohibition;
   (D)   Be posted in each county vehicle in areas visible to passengers,
provided that their placement does not interfere with the safe operation of the
vehicle. If the vehicle is used for undercover law enforcement operations, a
sign is not required to be placed in the vehicle; and
   (E)   Be posted on county grounds in locations and at intervals reasonably-
calculated to inform employees and the public of the prohibition.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.08  PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The county shall engage in an ongoing program to explain and clarify the
purposes and requirements of this chapter to employees and citizens affected by
it and to guide operators and managers in their compliance with it. In doing
so, the county may rely upon materials and information provided by the County
Health Department.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on October 1, 2013.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)    Following oral or written notice by the person in charge of an
area described in §
93.05, or his or her designee, failure to cease smoking or using tobacco
products constitutes an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $50. A
citation may be issued by a sworn law enforcement officer. Conviction of an
infraction under this section has no consequence other than payment of a
penalty, and no court costs may be assessed.
      (2)   In addition to any penalty under division (A)(1) above, employees
of the county who violate this chapter shall be subject to disciplinary action
consistent with the county’s human resources policies.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to cease smoking or using tobacco products in prohibited
areas may be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 issued by citation from
law enforcement.
      (2)   In addition, employees of the county who violate this chapter shall
be subject to disciplinary action consistent with the county’s human resource
policies.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   INSULATION CONTRACTORS
      
111.   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
      
112.   EMS SYSTEM OVERSIGHT AND AMBULANCE SERVICES
      
113.   MASSAGE PARLORS
      
114.   LANDFILL FRANCHISES
CHAPTER 110:  INSULATION CONTRACTORS
Section
   
110.01   Authority
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Application
   
110.04   Procedure for issuance
   
110.05   Termination and renewal for license
   
110.06   Suspension; revocation; appeal
   
110.07   Change of location
   
110.08   Permit required; insulation and energy utilization permit fee; persons
exempted
   
110.09   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to Ch. 703, North Carolina Session Laws of
1977, and G.S. § 153A-134.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
§ 110.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm, or corporation may for
consideration install, alter, or restore within the county any insulation or
other materials or energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet
the State Building Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization
standards who is not either:
   (A)   Licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Ch. 87;
   (B)   Working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer;
   (C)   An owner working upon his or her own building; or
   (D)   Licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
§ 110.03  APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall submit an
application for such license to the County Engineer conforming to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the County Engineer.
   (B)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or
home office address, if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   The names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   The names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
      (4)   The place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   The complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts
involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit by the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer, or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other
state or jurisdiction;
      (6)   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer, or director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the type regulated by this chapter, or other activities involving
construction, alteration, or modification of buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state, or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended, or revoked a license of
the type described in division (B)(6) above to an applicant or any employee,
partner, officer, or director of the applicant.
   (C)   License fees. Each application shall be accompanied by a license fee
in the amount of $5 for such license, such amount to be for the calendar year
and pro-rated by quarters to the end of such year.
   (D)   False statements. False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of such license.
   (E)   Exceptions. Contractors who hold a current insulation contractor’s
license from any municipality in the county need not obtain a county license.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978; Res. passed 2-7-1978)
§ 110.04  PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Licensing agency. The application and any comments and recommendations
relating thereto shall be considered by the County Engineer, who shall then
issue or deny the license pursuant to the standards provided in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Standards. The County Engineer shall issue the license unless it shall
find that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer, or director of the
applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last three years of a felony or an
act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit, whether in this or any other state
or jurisdiction;
      (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein
or has had such a license suspended or revoked by any local, state, or federal
government or agency and such government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored such license; or
      (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application.
   (C)   Appeal for denial. Any applicant whose license is denied may appeal
the denial to the Board of County Commissioners. After reasonable notice to the
applicant, the Board shall afford the applicant an opportunity to show why his
or her license should not be denied.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
§ 110.05  TERMINATION AND RENEWAL FOR LICENSE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal
year for which it was issued. Renewal of such license shall be pursuant to the
same procedures and requirements set forth for in §
110.04.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
§ 110.06  SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   The County Engineer may suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder
at any time upon a showing that the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer, or director of the applicant has:
      (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
      (2)   Violated the State Building Code requirements as to insulation or
energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any other
jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit
with respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (B)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Board of County Commissioners. After reasonable
notice to the licensee, the Board shall afford the licensee an opportunity to
show why its license would not be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
§ 110.07  CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided ten days’
notice thereof is given to the County Engineer and operation at such new
location does not violate any applicable state or local law, ordinance, or
regulation.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
§ 110.08  PERMIT REQUIRED; INSULATION AND ENERGY UTILIZATION PERMIT FEE;
PERSONS EXEMPTED.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 1978, no persons, firm, or corporation may for
consideration install, alter, or restore within any unincorporated part of the
county and within any city that adopts this chapter pursuant to the authority
granted in G.S. § 153A-122 any insulation or other materials or energy
utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building Code
requirements for insulation and energy utilization standards without first
securing a permit for the work to be done.
   (B)   An insulation and energy utilization permit, secured from the County
Inspection Department and evidencing full compliance with the insulation and
energy utilization standards in the State Building Code. For each such
insulation and energy utilization permit issued, there shall be a fee of $10.
This fee shall be for two inspections at the work-site; additional inspections
shall be $5 plus $0.15 per mile travel expense each.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   A person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to all applicable punishment, penalties, and equitable relief
provided for by Ch. 703, North Carolina Session Laws of 1977, and G.S. § 153A-
123.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
CHAPTER 111:  OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and intent
   
111.02   “Outdoor advertising sign” defined
   
111.03   Type of signs regulated
   
111.04   Specific sign regulations
   
111.05   Maintenance
   
111.06   Non-permitted sign; revocation of permit
   
111.07   Expiration of permit
   
111.08   Renewal of permit
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the placement of off-site
advertising signs located in the county’s jurisdiction to ensure that these
types of signs are placed with a certain order while allowing individual
property owners the potential to negotiate with advertisers and sign companies
to place these signs on their property.
   (B)   This chapter does not regulate or grant regulating authority for the
control of on-premises signs.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.02  “OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN” DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, an OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN means an
off-site sign that advertises an establishment, merchandise, service, or
entertainment that is not sold, produced, manufactured, or furnished at the
property on which said sign is located.
   (B)   Also known as a BILLBOARD SIGN.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.03  TYPE OF SIGNS REGULATED.
   This chapter regulates the placement of any sign that meets the definition
in §
111.02 and is larger than 65 square feet in area. The area is to be calculated
by measuring the dimensions of the sign face. Any necessary supporting
structures shall not be included in calculating the sign area.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.04  SPECIFIC SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The following restrictions will be adhered to regarding outdoor advertising
signs.
   (A)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter
shall be located at a minimum of 50 feet from the property line or right-of-way
boundary, adjacent to the main travel corridor, whichever is greater.
      (1)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter
shall be located at a minimum of 250 feet from the side property lines of the
parcel on which the sign is located.
      (2)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter
shall be located at a minimum of 100 feet from the rear property line of the
parcel on which the sign is located.
      (3)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter
shall be located no closer than 250 feet to any other sign that falls under the
regulatory criteria of this chapter.
      (4)   All required setbacks specified in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3)
above are to be measured from the closest point of the sign’s footing (i.e., a
pedestal or signpost) to the property line or right-of- way in question.
   (B)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter
shall be located outside all public rights-of-way.
   (C)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter
shall comply with all other applicable federal, state, and local regulations
and requirements, including but not limited to the State Building Code, state
and federal environmental laws, and the State Department of Transportation
rules.
   (D)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter, and
utilize unnatural lighting, shall have the lighting elements aimed at the sign
and not aimed so as to interfere with the movement of traffic or to be a
nuisance to surrounding property.
   (E)   All signs that fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter
shall be no higher than 60 feet.
   (F)   If signs fall under the regulatory criteria of this chapter, the sign
owner will be required to secure a sign permit from the County Manager or his
or her designee. The permit will include the following:
      (1)   Size of the sign including support structures;
      (2)   Statement indicating whether the sign will be lighted. If statement
indicates that the sign is not to be lighted, but the sign owner decides to add
lights later, then the permit shall be amended;
      (3)   Location of the sign in relation to property lines and rights-of-
way;
      (4)   Signed statement from the property owner indicating his or her
agreement to the sign being placed on his or her property; and
      (5)   Payment of any fees imposed by the county.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of any sign subject to this chapter shall maintain the sign in
good repair. If any sign is found to be in need of repair, the county will
notify the owner of the need for repairs with a specific deadline for
completion of the needed work. If the repairs are not completed as required,
the county may remove the sign at the owner’s expense after notification of the
owner by certified letter with 30 days’ notice from the postmark date on the
certified letter.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.06  NON-PERMITTED SIGN; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The owner of any sign that falls under the regulatory criteria of this
chapter who fails to receive a proper permit or comply with proper setbacks as
a condition of a permit shall be determined to be “illegal”. In such case, the
owner is subject to any and all regulatory authority at the county’s disposal.
This includes assuring the sign is properly permitted or removal of the sign.
In addition, any sign that is permitted and fails to adhere to the specific
requirements of the permit or any other requirement of this chapter shall be
determined to be in violation and corrective action will be required.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07  EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit granted for a sign that falls under the regulatory criteria of
this chapter shall be valid for a period of one calendar year. If no work has
been done to erect the sign in that time frame, then the permit shall be
voided. Further, if a permit has been granted, then the sign must be fully
installed and functional within a two-year period or the permit is voided.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.08  RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   Any permit that has expired for any reason listed in §
111.07 may be renewed for a period of six months. If, after that six-month
period, work has not adequately progressed, then the permit shall be determined
to be void and another permit must be applied for. However, the applicant must
wait an additional six months before applying for another permit.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
    The owner of any sign determined by the county to be “illegal” in any way
will be subject to fines of $50 per day after the county has given the owner
reasonable notice of the violation.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2008)
CHAPTER 112:  EMS SYSTEM OVERSIGHT AND AMBULANCE SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   EMS providers of 911 emergency response, care and transport
   
112.03   Non-emergency ambulance franchises
   
112.04   Contents of application for franchise
   
112.05   Consideration of application for franchise
   
112.06   Exceptions to franchise requirements
   
112.07   State permits and county franchise requirements
   
112.08   Standards for mobile communication
   
112.09   Other requirements of all franchisees
   
112.10   Franchise renewal
   
112.11   Enforcing agency
   
112.12   Cessation of activity upon termination of franchise
   
112.13   Change of ownership
   
112.14   Complaints and violations
County Emergency Medical Services System Plan Oversight Committee
   
112.25   Oversight Committee created
   
112.26   Membership
   
112.27   Liaisons
   
112.28   Term of office
   
112.29   Powers of members
   
112.30   Voting rights and responsibilities of members
   
112.31   Duties of Oversight Committee
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  PURPOSE.
    Pursuant to authority granted in G.S. §§ 153A-46, 153A-123, and 153A-250,
and upon a finding that it is necessary to assure the provision of quality,
cost effective ambulance service to promote the public health, safety, welfare,
and convenience of its citizens, the Board of Commissioners hereby establishes
an Oversight Committee and adopts the following rules for emergency and non-
emergency ambulance providers in the county.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.02  EMS PROVIDERS OF 911 EMERGENCY RESPONSE, CARE AND TRANSPORT.
   (A)   Contract. Each agency providing 911 emergency response, care, and
transport in the county shall have a valid contract with the county government.
The terms of this contract shall be followed by the agency to assure proper
care for the citizens and visitors of the county. Without a valid contract to
provide these services, an agency is not permitted to operate in the county.
   (B)   Financial assistance. Agencies requesting financial assistance from
the county will follow the terms of the contract, such as budget submission and
financial accountability.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  NON-EMERGENCY AMBULANCE FRANCHISES.
    (A)   Any person or corporation seeking a franchise in the county shall
make application to the County Department of Emergency Services providing the
information the county shall deem necessary for a determination of the
capability of the applicant to provide non-emergency ambulance services in the
county in accordance with the requirements of state law and the county as
detailed herein.
   (B)   An applicant for a franchise must provide transport services 24 hours
per day, seven days per week, 52 weeks per year within the county.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)   Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
    Applicants will follow the guidelines established by the county and use
such forms as may be required by the county, which shall contain the following:
   (A)   A non-refundable fee of $1,200 shall accompany all original
applications before consideration will be given to the application;
   (B)   The name and address of the applicant for franchise;
   (C)   The trade and all other names, if any, under which the applicant does
business, together with a certified copy of the assumed name certificate filed
with the Register of Deeds, or a copy of the Articles of Incorporation stating
such name or names;
   (D)   A complete resume of the training and experience of the applicant in
the transportation and care of patients;
   (E)   A full description of the type and level of service to be provided;
   (F)   A description of the physical location of the place or places from
which the applicant intends to operate;
   (G)   The manner in which the public will be able to obtain services and how
the non-emergency ambulances will be dispatched;
   (H)   Provide a current listing from the North Carolina Office of Emergency
Medical Services (NCOEMS) continuum database of the personnel who will be
providing the non-emergency transport operations in the county;
   (I)   A current listing of all ambulance apparatus that will be used by the
applicant to provide ambulance transport services. This listing will include
the make, model, agency ID number, vehicle identification number (VIN), and
state permit number as maintained in the NCOEMS continuum database;
   (J)   A certificate of insurance in a form acceptable to the county, which
documents that the applicant has complied with insurance coverage requirements,
as follows:
      (1)   General liability insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000
per occurrence, $2,000,000 umbrella coverage, for a combined total of
$3,000,000, with a combined single limit with contractual coverage
endorsements;
      (2)   Vehicle liability with insurance limits covering bodily injury,
death, and property damage claims in the amount of at least $1,000,000 per
occurrence, $2,000,000 umbrella, for combined coverage of $3,000,000, with
combined single limits;
      (3)   Professional liability, errors and omissions insurance for all
personnel in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence, $3,000,000
combined coverage;
      (4)   Said certificate of insurance will be forwarded to the County
Emergency Services Office 14 days prior to the agency going into business in
the county from their insurance company referencing the dollar amounts listed
above or greater;
   (K)   A fee schedule that outlines all charges and rates for services and
loaded mileage; and
   (L)   Documentation of a training program that provides a minimum of 36
hours of annual continuing education and will also include:
      (1)   Blood-borne pathogens - infectious control training;
      (2)   Vehicle operations - driver training;
      (3)   HIPAA privacy and security training;
      (4)   Harassment and hostile work place; and
      (5)   Agency standard operational guidelines (SOG).
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.05  CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
    (A)   The County Department of Emergency Services shall receive all
applications for franchise from applicants.
   (B)   The County Department of Emergency Services shall evaluate each
application for compliance with the requirements of this chapter before
presenting the application to the Oversight Committee.
   (C)   After consideration by the Oversight Committee, the application shall
be presented to the Board of Commissioners with the recommendation of the
Oversight Committee within 45 days concerning an award or denial of a franchise
to the applicant by the Emergency Services Director.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.06  EXCEPTIONS TO FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   No franchise shall be required for the following:
   (A)   Any entity rendering mutual aid assistance in the case of a disaster,
major catastrophe, mutual aid or emergency when the resources of the county are
insufficient or unable to cope and assistance has been requested;
   (B)   Any entity operated from a location or headquarters outside of the
county, transporting to facilities located within the county, or picking up
patients within the county for transportation to locations outside of the
county;
   (C)   Ambulances owned and operated by an agency of the United States
government;
   (D)   EMS providers under contract with county government to provide
emergency medical services, or municipal EMS providers, all of which are
operating as part of the county EMS system as of the effective date of this
chapter, may, with County Commission authorization, conduct non-emergency
transport without further franchise approval only under the following
conditions: the Emergency Services Director must verify that none of the
currently franchised transport providers are operating in that squad's
emergency response area, at the requested level of service required for
transport by a medical physician. These exceptions will be approved only on a
case by case, trip by trip basis with notifications of said approvals forwarded
to the Director of Emergency Services, with detailed circumstances; and
   (E)   Any entity providing ambulance transportation services within the
meaning of this chapter that is part of a state-certified hospital-based
specialty care transportation program.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.07  STATE PERMITS AND COUNTY FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
    (A)   No person shall furnish, operate, conduct, maintain, advertise, or
otherwise be engaged in, or profess to be engaged in, the transportation of
patients within the county unless the person holds a valid permit for each
ambulance used in such business or service, issued by the NCOEMS, and has been
granted a franchise for the operation of such service by the county pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   Each franchisee shall secure and retain all state and federal licenses
required to handle drugs under DEA or other regulatory authority regulations,
if required.
   (C)   Each franchised ambulance operator shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this chapter and all applicable federal, state, and local laws
relating to taxes, health, sanitation, safety, and equipment.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)   Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  STANDARDS FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION.
    (A)   All ambulance vehicles shall be equipped with an operational two-way
radio capable of establishing good quality voice communications within the
geographic confines of the county to each hospital emergency department and the
County 911 Communications Center.
   (B)   Each non-emergency franchisee shall maintain current authorization and
Federal Communication Commission licenses for all frequencies and radio
transmitters operated by that provider. Copies of all authorizations and
licenses shall be on display and available for inspection per the Federal
Communication Commission's rules and regulations.
   (C)   Each base of operation must have at least one open telephone.
Telephone numbers must be registered with each law enforcement agency and the
County 911 Communications Center.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09  OTHER REQUIREMENTS OF ALL FRANCHISEES.
    (A)   All franchisees must:
      (1)   Have the minimum equipment as specified by the NCOEMS and as
specified in the guidelines adopted by the county and the County Medical
Director;
      (2)   Participate in the county mutual aid agreement;
      (3)   Agree that disclosure of protected and specific patient-related
information to the public is forbidden and comply with all provisions of the
HIPAA privacy and security rules, as well as the HITECH Act, and all other
applicable laws, regulations, and rules concerning protected health
information; and
      (4)   Be responsible for keeping accurate records of all calls, as well
as other records and reports required by the county or the state.
   (B)   Parties to the franchise may terminate the franchise upon 60 days'
written notice to the other party.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)   Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10  FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Term. A franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for a
term of two years. This term will follow the county's fiscal year and run from
July 1 of a given year to June 30 of the subsequent calendar year.
   (B)   Renewal.
      (1)   The franchise may be renewed following the submission of a renewal
application and payment of a $500 fee.
      (2)   The renewal fee is due 60 days prior to the franchise expiration
date or the franchise may not be renewed.
      (3)   The renewal application will be brief, but must contain the
franchise's desire to remain within the county non-emergency response system
and state their intent to comply with all franchisee requirements as defined in
this chapter.
      (4)   The Oversight Committee will review the renewal application and any
other pertinent information provided to the committee by the Emergency Services
Director and/or the Medical Director before making a recommendation to the
Board of Commissioners for their approval or denial of the franchise.
      (5)   The Oversight Committee will have the ability to review each
franchise's most recent financial records.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.11  ENFORCING AGENCY.
    The County Department of Emergency Services shall be the enforcing agency
for the regulations contained in this chapter and shall establish policies,
procedures, and standards for the evaluation of non-emergency ambulance
franchise applications, and shall:
   (A)   Require and receive monthly reports from franchisees to include:
      (1)   Record of weekly dispatches. These shall show the number of
dispatches originating in the county per day for each week, and totaled for the
month, and forwarded to Emergency Services (electronic transfer is desired if
available);
      (2)   Daily report log can be automated. The log shall be maintained for
the purpose of identifying all persons transported on any given day and
maintained at the unit's office for inspection by County Emergency Services,
when on site. These can be electronically stored on site;
      (3)   Daily driver and attendant checklist and inspection report. Shall
list contents and description of operations for each vehicle, signed by the
individual verifying vehicle operations and equipment. This form will be
maintained by month for inspection by County Emergency Services as appropriate;
   (B)   Inspect the premises, vehicles, equipment and personnel of franchisees
to assure compliance with this chapter and perform any other inspections as
deemed necessary;
   (C)   With approval of the Oversight Committee, recommend to the Board of
Commissioners the temporary or permanent suspension of a franchisee in the
event of non-compliance with the terms of this chapter; and
   (D)   Maintain for two years all records required by this chapter and other
applicable state and county regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.12  CESSATION OF ACTIVITY UPON TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
    (A)   Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a franchise, such
franchised ambulance operator shall immediately cease operations.
   (B)   Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a driver's license,
attendant's certification, or Emergency Medical Technician Certificate, such
persons shall cease to drive an ambulance, to perform service, or attend an
ambulance.
   (C)   The franchisee shall not permit any person whose license or
credentials are invalid to drive an ambulance or provide medical care in
conjunction with the ambulance operations.
   (D)   Parties to the franchise may terminate the franchise upon 60 days'
written notice to the other party.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)   Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13  CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   Any change of ownership of a franchised non-emergency ambulance service
without prior written approval of the County Department of Emergency Services
shall terminate the existing franchise immediately. A new application and fee
of $1,200 shall be required of a franchise service under new ownership. The
words CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP under this section shall mean and include a successor
company by merger, change of name, bankruptcy resulting in the appointment of a
trustee, or dissolution of the entity.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14  COMPLAINTS AND VIOLATIONS.
    (A)   Complaints or alleged violations of this chapter must be in writing
and directed to the County Department of Emergency Services (through the
Beaufort County Manager, 121 W. 3rd Street, Washington, NC 27889) for
processing.
   (B)   The County Department of Emergency Services shall assure due process
for any complaints or alleged violations as follows:
      (1)   After the preliminary investigation and necessary fact findings,
provide a hearing by the Oversight Committee where both sides have an
opportunity to present their case regarding the written complaint or alleged
violation in person (should they so choose);
      (2)   The Oversight Committee shall deliberate following the hearing,
excluding any parties who were involved in the complaint;
      (3)   The decision of the Oversight Committee regarding the written
complaint shall be sent by mail to all parties within 15 days of the hearing,
providing procedures for appeal;
      (4)   Upon receipt of the Oversight Committee's written decision, each
organization will have 15 days to send a written appeal to the Board of
Commissioners through the Beaufort County Manager, 121 W. 3rd Street,
Washington, NC 27889; and
      (5)   Upon receipt of written appeal, the Board of Commissioners shall
render a decision in writing within 45 days. The decision, at their discretion,
may include, but not be limited to, probation, suspension, fines, or
termination of franchise.
   (C)   Default in any of the terms or conditions of this chapter by non-
emergency franchisees may cause termination of the franchise at the discretion
of the county.
   (D)   Any person filing two or more written and proven false complaints
against any employee or the organization operating the ambulance services
covered under this chapter shall be in violation of this chapter and guilty of
a Class 3 Misdemeanor. An example of which would be the false or frivolous
complaint against any ambulance service or any employee or representative of an
ambulance service with the intent to cause a fine, suspension, probation, or
termination of any ambulance franchise.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)   Penalty, see §
112.99
COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES SYSTEM PLAN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
§ 112.25  OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE CREATED.
    There is hereby created the Beaufort County Emergency Medical Services
System Plan Oversight Committee (hereinafter referred to as the "Oversight
Committee"). This Committee will provide oversight for both emergency medical
services providers and non-emergency ambulance providers. The Board of
Commissioners reserves the right to reject or accept any person recommended or
nominated for membership to this Committee.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.26  MEMBERSHIP. 
   Membership shall consist of the following eight members:
   (A)   One County Commissioner, who shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners;
   (B)   One continuing education representative from Beaufort County Community
College (BCCC), who shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners at the
recommendation of the President of BCCC;
   (C)   One Vidant Beaufort Hospital representative, who shall be appointed by
the Board of Commissioners at the recommendation of the President of Vidant
Beaufort Hospital;
   (D)   One representative from County Emergency Services, who shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners at the recommendation of the County
Manager;
   (E)   One representative from the County EMS Association, who shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners, and who may be the current serving
President of the County EMS Association or an individual elected to represent
the association;
   (F)   Two citizens at large, whom are not related to any other members of
this committee, and who shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners; and
   (G)   One representative from a franchised non-emergency transport provider,
who shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.27  LIAISONS. 
    The following positions shall serve in a non-voting capacity as a resource
for the Oversight Committee:
   (A)   The County Attorney or the Attorney's designee from the County Legal
Department;
   (B)   The County Finance Director or the Finance Director's designee from
the Finance Department;
   (C)   A representative from the City of Washington Fire and Rescue
Department; and
   (D)   The Medical Director of the County EMS System.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.28  TERM OF OFFICE.
    (A)   With the exception of citizen at large seats, all Oversight Committee
members shall serve for as long as they hold their respective positions with
the agency they represent, or until the agency they represent recommends
replacement.
   (B)   (1)   All citizen at large members are eligible to serve two terms as
follows:
         (a)   One person will begin with a two year term, starting in
September and ending on even years; and
         (b)   One person will begin with a two year term, starting in
September and ending on odd years.
      (2)   If any citizen at large is unable to complete his/her term of
office, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint a citizen to fill the
unexpired term in accordance with the Board of Commissioners' general policy
for appointment to boards, commissions, and committees.
   (C)   All members appointed by the Board of Commissioners shall be selected
and shall serve in accordance with requirements of the Board of Commissioners
general policy for appointment to boards, commissions, and committees.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.29  POWERS OF MEMBERS.
    (A)   The duties and powers of the Oversight Committee shall be as
specified herein, and the Oversight Committee shall make rules and regulations
necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Oversight Committee shall meet quarterly or may be called as
needed to address urgent business by the County Director of Emergency Services,
Chairman of the Oversight Committee, or a majority of the Committee can request
the Chairman call a special meeting.
   (C)   The Oversight Committee shall, from time to time, review the
regulations and requirements contained herein and make recommendations to the
County Emergency Services Director for presentation to the Board of
Commissioners of any amendments or changes which it deems advisable.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.30  VOTING RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF MEMBERS.
    (A)   All members of the Oversight Committee shall have full and equal
voting rights and responsibilities on matters brought before the Oversight
Committee.
   (B)   All members must vote on all matters brought before the Oversight
Committee unless excused for a specific stated conflict of interest by a
majority vote of those members present.
   (C)   The County Emergency Services Director shall serve as liaison, a non-
voting member, between the Oversight Committee and the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   A Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected each year at the
September meeting of the Oversight Committee, or the first meeting held
thereafter if no meeting is held in September. The County Attorney or his/her
designee shall preside over the election of officers. Any voting member of the
Oversight Committee is eligible to be nominated and serve as Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson. Nominations do not require a second. Members nominated shall
be voted on individually in reverse order, with the last nomination being voted
on first. The positions of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be filled by
a majority vote of the Oversight Committee.
   (E)   The Oversight Committee shall not conduct business unless a quorum is
present. A quorum is defined as a majority of appointed members, excluding
vacant seats.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.31  DUTIES OF OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
    The duties of the Oversight Committee shall be to provide oversight of EMS
activities in the county to assure that each EMS provider's equipment,
personnel, method of operation, training, and skills are adequate to furnish
emergency medical services to the area the provider covers. These activities
shall include the following:
   (A)   Providing ongoing evaluation and recommendations for improvement of
EMS services;
   (B)   Promoting public information campaigns;
   (C)   Promoting other activities to improve EMS services in the county;
   (D)   Reviewing the annual budget package for EMS providers;
   (E)   Reviewing the county's EMS service areas (districts) to advise the
Board of Commissioners concerning restructuring and/or consolidating districts
as necessary to carry out the Oversight Committee's mission of providing
quality cost effective EMS services throughout the county;
   (F)   Advising the Emergency Services Director on matters relating to the
enforcement of this chapter, and developing and recommending to the Director,
for approval by the Board of Commissioners, such policies, regulations, and
actions which will maintain and improve the quality of both emergency medical
services and non-emergency ambulance services for the citizens of the county;
   (G)   Reviewing the compliance with this chapter by EMS providers and non-
emergency franchisees;
   (H)   Reviewing compliance of measurable performance standards by all EMS
providers;
   (I)   Reviewing compliance of measurable performance standards by all non-
emergency franchisees;
   (J)   Reviewing reports of inspections conducted by the Emergency Services
Director or his/her designee;
   (K)   Scheduling and conducting a hearing on application for franchise upon
request by the Emergency Services Director upon receipt of a complete
application for a franchise; and
   (L)   Supporting and encouraging non-profit providers to conduct fund
raisers and utilize volunteers for cost effectiveness.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
    (A)   Penalties may be imposed for violations or acts of non-compliance
with any of the franchise terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Penalties may be imposed and collected by the County Department of
Emergency Services as follows:
      (1)   First offense: penalty of $500;
      (2)   Second offense: if within one year of the first offense, penalty of
$1,000;
      (3)   Third offense: if within one year of the second offense, penalty of
$2,000; and
      (4)   Fourth offense: if within one year of the third offense, shall
cause the Oversight Committee to recommend to the Board of Commissioners the
permanent termination of the franchise.
   (C)   Penalties for any offense may include monetary penalties, suspension,
probation, and/or termination of the franchise if approved by the Oversight
Committee and the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2014; Ord. passed 9-10-2018)
CHAPTER 113:  MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
   
113.01   Scope
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Licensing of massage business operators
   
113.04   Licensing of massagists
   
113.05   Employer to use only licensed employees
   
113.06   Posting of license
   
113.07   Notice and hearing
   
113.08   Hours of operation
   
113.09   Patronage of massage businesses by minors and employment of minors
   
113.10   Treatment of persons of opposite sex restricted
   
113.11   Privilege license annual
   
113.12   Effective date
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  SCOPE.
   To protect public health, safety, welfare, and morals, the following
privilege license provisions and regulations are ordained for the privilege of
carrying on the business, trade, or profession of massagist and for the
operation or carrying on of the businesses, trades, or professions commonly
known as massage parlor, health salons, physical culture studios, or similar
establishments wherein massage or physical manipulation of the human body is
carried on or practiced. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a
regularly established and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing home, nor to
an office or clinic operated and regularly used by a duly qualified and
licensed medical practitioner, osteopath, or chiropractor in connection with
the practice of medicine, chiropractic, or osteopathy.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS OR PROFESSION OF MASSAGE. Includes the massage or treatment of any
person for a fee or in expectation of a gratuity from the person massaged.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping, by hand or mechanical device.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, and massage studios.
   MASSAGIST. Any person engaged in the business or profession of massage.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 113.03  LICENSING OF MASSAGE BUSINESS OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation, or association shall operate a
massage business as defined in §
113.02, unless such person, partnership, corporation, or association shall have
first applied for and received the privilege license provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for the privilege license prescribed herein shall be
upon a form approved by the Board of Commissioners and shall be filed with the
County Manager. Every such application shall be made under oath and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of
such person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, or association,
the name and residence address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in such applicant;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the massage business shall be
located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above for any felony, or prostitution
or any violation of the law relative to prostitution;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation, by any governmental unit,
of any license to operate a massage business or to engage in the business or
profession of massage held by any person whose name is required to be given in
division (B)(1) above;
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above; for violation of any statute,
law, ordinance, or regulation of any government concerning the operation of a
massage business or the business or profession of massage;
      (6)   The name and address of any massage business or other establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in division
(B)(1) above wherein the business or profession of massage is carried on; and
      (7)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
   (C)   (1)   The County Manager shall transmit a copy of the application to
the Sheriff’s Department for an investigative report, to the Inspections
Division to determine compliance with all zoning and building regulations and
ordinances, and to the Fire Department to determine compliance with any laws
relating to fire protection.
      (2)   The Sheriff’s and Fire Departments shall, within a reasonable time,
not to exceed 45 days, report the results of their examination to the County
Manager.
   (D)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports required by
this section, shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners, which shall
approve such application if the Board of Commissioners determines that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant, or any person having any legal or beneficial
ownership interest in the applicant, has not been convicted of any crime
involving sexual misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177
through 14-202.1, G.S. Art. 26 (offenses against public morality and decency),
G.S. §§ 14-203 through 14-206, G.S. Art. 27, or of any federal statute relating
to prostitution, or of any violation of any law or ordinance of any
governmental unit concerning or related to the business or profession of
massage;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building, and fire prevention codes; and
      (4)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application, had a previously-issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of massage revoked.
   (E)   Upon approval of the application by the county, and upon receipt of a
$100 license fee, the collector of revenue shall issue a privilege license to
applicant.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Board of Commissioners if the Board of Commissioners determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits to
be on the premises of the applicant’s massage business, any person practicing
the business or profession of massage who has not been issued the privilege
license required by §
113.04, or whose license under §
113.04 has been revoked;
      (3)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct, including
but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1, G.S. Art. 26 (offenses
against public morality and decency), G.S. §§ 14-203 through 14-206, and G.S.
Art. 27 (prostitution);
      (4)   Any employee of the licensee is convicted of any felony in
connection with his or her employment, or is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1, G.S. Art. 26 (offenses against public morality and decency), G.S. §§ 14-
203 through 14-206, and G.S. Art. 27 (prostitution); or
      (5)   The licensee violates any zoning, building, or fire prevention
ordinance.
   (G)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter is void if the licensee
moves or ceases operating a massage parlor at the location required to be
stated in the application for license pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  LICENSING OF MASSAGISTS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business or profession of massage unless
such person shall have first applied for and received the privilege license
provided by this section.
   (B)   The application for the license required by this section shall be upon
a form approved by the Board of Commissioners and shall be filed with the
County Manager. Such application shall be given under oath and shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, and residence of the applicant;
      (2)   A complete statement of the previous business or occupation of the
applicant for the two years immediately preceding the date of application,
including any massage establishment experience;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local ordinance;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of massage; and
      (5)   The date and place of applicant’s birth, the name of applicant’s
parents, and the residence address, or addresses of the applicant for the five
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (C)   (1)   The applicant shall submit, as part of the application required
in division (B) above, the following:
         (a)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Sheriff’s Department;
         (b)   Two recent photographs of the applicant’s head and shoulders, of
a size and quality prescribed by the Board of Commissioners; and
         (C)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to
practice in the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The
certificate shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying
physician and that the applicant is free from communicable disease.
      (2)   The additional information required by this division © shall be
provided at the applicant’s expense.
   (D)   The County Manager shall transmit a copy of the application to the
Sheriff’s Department for an investigative report. The Sheriff’s Department
shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed 45 days, report the results of
its investigation to the County Manager.
   (E)   An application in proper form shall be submitted to the Board of
Commissioners together with all reports required by this section. The Board of
Commissioners shall approve such application if the Board determines:
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (3)   The applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1, G.S.
Art. 26 (offenses against public morality and decency), G.S. §§ 14-203 through
14-206, and G.S. Art. 27 (prostitution), or of any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
concerning or related to the business or profession of massage;
      (4)   The applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application, had a previously- issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of massage revoked;
      (5)   The applicant is free from communicable disease as evidenced by the
medical certificate required herein; and/or
      (6)   The applicant has not been previously convicted of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Upon approval of the application by the Board of Commissioners, and
upon receipt of a $50 license fee, the collector of revenue shall issue a
privilege license to the applicant.
   (G)   The Board of Commissioners shall have authority to direct that any
person licensed under this section submit to a medical examination by a
licensed physician approved by the Board. This authority shall be exercised
only when the Board has reason to believe that any such person has contracted a
communicable disease. Refusal to submit to such examination shall be grounds
for revocation of such license as provided in division (H) below.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this division (G), every person licensed
under this section shall file and continue to file with the County Manager a
new medical certificate with each application for renewal of the license
prescribed by this section. Failure to file such updated certificates shall be
grounds for revocation of such license as provided in division (H) below.
   (H)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Board of Commissioners if the Board of Commissioners determines:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee is afflicted with a communicable disease;
      (3)   The licensee has failed to be examined by a licensed physician when
required by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to division (G) above, or has
failed to file any medical certificate required by said division (G) above; or
      (4)   The licensee has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1, G.S. Art. 26 (offenses against public morality and decency), G.S. §§ 14-
203 through 14-206, and G.S. Art. 27 (prostitution), or of violating any
federal statute relating to prostitution, or for violation of any law or
ordinance of any governmental unit related to the business or profession of
massage.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05  EMPLOYER TO USE ONLY LICENSED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
113.03 shall allow or permit any person to massage or treat any person upon the
premises operated by the licensee unless the person giving such massage or
treatment has complied with all requirements of licensing under §
113.04, including periodic medical examinations by a licensed physician.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the
license issued to such violator pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06  POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every massagist shall post the license required by this chapter in his
or her work area.
   (B)   Every person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under
§
113.03 shall display such license in a prominent place.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07  NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Before the Board of Commissioners revokes a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, or if the Board of Commissioners determines reasonable grounds exist
to deny an application for a license pursuant to this chapter, the Board of
Commissioners shall cause a written notice to be sent by certified mail to the
licensee affected or applicant affected, at the address stated in the license
or application. This notice shall advise the affected party of a right to
appear before the Board of Commissioners, with or without legal counsel, at a
stated time and place, for the purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to
such revocation or denial, and for the purpose of hearing all evidence
submitted and examining or cross-examining any person providing such evidence.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 113.08  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person licensed as a massagist under §
113.03 shall massage or treat any person or engage in the business or
profession of massage, before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight, prevailing
time.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
113.03 shall admit customers or prospective customers, remain open for
business, or allow or permit or condone any massage or treatment of any person
upon the premises before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight, prevailing time.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing a massage business upon the premises
shall allow, permit, or condone any massage or treatment of any person before
8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight, prevailing time.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09  PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE BUSINESSES BY MINORS AND EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   (A)   No person licensed as a masseur or masseuse under §
113.03 shall massage or treat any person under the age of 18 upon the licensed
premises, except upon written order by a licensed physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, or registered physician therapist, such order being dated and in
the possession of the massagist giving the massage or treatment. A violation of
this division (A) shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued to such
violator pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under §
113.03 shall allow, permit, or condone the massage or treatment of any person
under the age of 18 upon the licensed premises, except upon written order by a
licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, or registered physical therapist,
such order being dated, and a true copy of such order being in the possession
of the licensee before administration of any massage or treatment. A violation
of this division (B) shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued to
such violator pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   No person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed pursuant
to §
113.03 shall employ any person under the age of 18 years in the operation of a
massage business.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10  TREATMENT OF PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license under this section to
treat a person of the opposite sex, except upon the signed order of a licensed
physician, osteopath, chiropractor, or registered physical therapist, which
order shall be dated and shall specifically state the number of treatments, not
to exceed ten. The date and hour of each treatment given and the name of the
operator shall be entered on such order by the establishment where such
treatments are given and shall be subject to inspection by the Sheriff at any
reasonable time. The requirements of this section shall not apply to treatments
given in the residence of a patient, the office of a licensed physician,
osteopath, or registered physical therapist, chiropractor, or in a regularly
established and licensed hospital or sanitarium.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11  PRIVILEGE LICENSE ANNUAL.
   The licenses required under this chapter are annual privilege licenses. Such
licenses shall be due and payable in the same manner as prescribed for other
privilege licenses issued by the county pursuant to the license and privilege
tax ordinance of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 113.12  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its adaption
and publication as required by law.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by fine or imprisoned as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1979; Res. passed 10-2-1979)
CHAPTER 114:  LANDFILL FRANCHISES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Grant of franchise
   
114.03   Compliance with other laws
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Term
   
114.06   Termination or suspension of franchise
   
114.07   Assignability
   
114.08   Effective date
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. Board of Commissioners for the County of Beaufort.
      CERCLA/SARA. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
Reauthorization Act of 1986, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq., Pub. Law No. 99-
499, 100 Stat. 1613, as amended.
      CLOSURE. The cessation of operation of a solid waste management facility
and the act of securing the facility so that it will pose no significant threat
to human health or the environment.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking,
or placing of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that the solid
waste or any constituent part thereof may enter the environment or be emitted
into the air or discharged into any waters, including but not limited to
groundwaters.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses,
and recognizable industrial by-products, but excluding sewage and human waste.
      LANDFILL. A disposal facility or a part of a disposal facility where
solid waste is placed in or on land and which is not a land treatment facility,
a surface impoundment, and injection well, a hazardous waste long-term storage
facility, or a surface storage facility.
      OPERATOR. Any person, including the owner, who is principally engaged in,
and is in charge of, the actual operation, supervision, and maintenance of a
solid waste management facility and includes the person in charge of a shift or
periods of operation during any part of the day.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, partnership,
unit of local government, state agency, federal agency, or other legal entity.
      RCRA. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, Pub. Law No.
94-580, 90 Stat. 2795, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., as amended.
      REFUSE. All nonputrescible waste.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A facility for disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with the rules concerning sanitary landfills
adopted by the state and the county or any appropriate federal agency.
      SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a
municipal, commercial, institutional, or industrial wastewater treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, or any other
waste having similar characteristics and effects.
      SOLID WASTE. Any hazardous or nonhazardous garbage, refuse, or sludge
from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution
control facility, domestic sewage, and sludges generated by the treatment
thereof in sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal systems, and
other material that is either discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or
treated prior to being discharged, or has served its original intended use and
is generally discarded, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained
gaseous material resulting from industrial, institutional, commercial, and/or
agricultural operations, and from community activities. The term does not
include:
         (a)   Fecal waste from fowls and animals other than humans;
         (b)   Solid or dissolved material in:
            1.   Domestic sewage and sludges generated by treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal systems designed to
discharge effluents to the surface waters;
            2.   Irrigation return flows; and
            3.   Wastewater discharges and the sludges incidental to and
generated by treatment which are point sources subject to permits granted under
§ 402 of the Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342, as amended,
Pub. Law No. 92-500, and permits granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the
Environmental Management Commission. However, any sludges that meet the
criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a SOLID WASTE for the
purposes of this chapter.
         (c)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Ch.
143, Art. 21. However, any oils or other liquid hydrocarbons that meet the
criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a solid waste for the
purposes of this chapter;
         (d)   Any source, special nuclear or byproduct material as defined by
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2011; and
         (e)   Mining refuse covered by the State Mining Act, G.S. §§ 74-46
through 74-68 and regulated by the State Mining Commission (as defined under
G.S. § 1 43B-290) . However, any specific mining waste that meets the criteria
for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a solid waste for the purposes of
this chapter.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Any place at which solid wastes are disposed
of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any other method.
      SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. Purposeful, systematic control of the generation,
storage, collection, transport, separation, treatment, processing, recycling,
recovery, and disposal of solid waste.
   (B)   All additional definitions set out in G.S. § 143B-293.1 which are not
specifically set forth herein but which may be utilized in this chapter, as
amended, or any franchise issued hereunder, such definitions being incorporated
herein by reference thereto.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.02  GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Prior to obtaining from the State Department of Environment, Natural
Resources (NCDEHNR) a new permit, a renewal of a permit, or a substantial
amendment to a permit for a sanitary landfill located, all or in part, in the
county, the operator of such landfill shall, in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter, apply for and obtain from the Board a franchise to operate
such landfill, subject only to the exclusionary provisions of division (D)(2)
below.
   (B)   Any person operating or maintaining a sanitary landfill in the county
pursuant to a contractual agreement with the county in effect at the time of
adoption of this chapter, and who, pursuant to activity authorized under such
agreement, becomes subject to this chapter based on a need to file an
application with NCDEHNR for a new permit, a renewal of a permit, or a
substantial amendment to a permit for a sanitary landfill, shall be entitled to
obtain a franchise under this chapter for the sole purpose of compliance with
G.S. § 130A-294(b l)(3). However, the provisions of this chapter and any
franchise issued under it shall apply to such person only to the extent that it
does not limit, affect, alter, modify, revoke, or invalidate any aspect of that
person’s existing contract with the county.
   (C)   An application for a franchise submitted pursuant to this chapter
shall be filed with the Board or its designee, and shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and whether a sole
proprietorship, corporation, or partnership, with disclosure of the ownership
interests;
      (2)   An application fee as set by the Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   A list of equipment possessed, available, or to be obtained by the
applicant and used in the operation of the landfill for which the franchise is
requested;
      (4)   The number of employees the applicant expects to use in its
business;
      (5)   A balance sheet or equivalent financial statement as of the close
of the applicant’s last business year, showing the net worth of the person
filing the application. Should the person or business making the application
have incomplete or insufficient information, the owners of the applicant’s
business shall provide individual financial information;
      (6)   A designation of the population to be served, including a
description of the geographic area;
      (7)   A study or other information satisfactory to the Board detailing
the need of the designated area for the sanitary landfill;
      (8)   Traffic studies demonstrating the adequacy of existing road
structures for the estimated increase in traffic to, from, or around the
landfill site; and, if existing roads are inadequate, plans for road
improvements;
      (9)   A description of the volume and characteristics of the waste
stream;
      (10)   A projection on the useful life of the landfill; and
      (11)   The initial proposed fee schedule for fees to be charged at the
landfill.
   (D)   After the application is filed, but before the first reading of the
franchise by the Board, the applicant must do the following:
      (1)   Notify by certified mail all contiguous property owners of the
proposed landfill and submit the signed mail notices to the County Manager’s
office; and
      (2)   Publish at least two notices about the proposed landfill in local
newspapers having general circulation in the county and provide a publisher’s
affidavit to the County Manager’s office.
   (E)   This chapter shall not apply to any new permit, renewal of a permit,
or a substantial amendment to a permit for a sanitary landfill, which was
issued by NCDEHNR prior to the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.03  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Any person granted a franchise hereunder shall, as the condition of the
franchise, comply with the Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances and any other
county ordinances which now or hereafter relate thereto and with all laws and
regulations of the state and the United States with respect to the operation of
the particular sanitary landfill for which a franchise may be granted pursuant
to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.04  FEES.
   (A)   The Board shall approve all fees to be charged by the operator of a
sanitary landfill not operating at the time of the adoption of this chapter or
not otherwise subject to existing contract terms as of the date of this
chapter. The fees to be charged by any such operator may be changed by the
Board as it deems necessary or expedient.
   (B)   Such sanitary landfill operator shall submit any proposed fee changes
to the Clerk to the Board for transmittal to the Board at least 60 days prior
to the proposed effective date of the fee changes.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.05  TERM.
   A franchise shall be for a term of years not to exceed the maximum allowable
by law at the time of the filing of a franchise application pursuant to this
chapter. Provided, however, that any franchise granted hereunder shall not be
for a term less than five years. Any person who has been granted a franchise
for a sanitary landfill hereunder shall be subject to the provisions and
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.06  TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF FRANCHISE.
   The Board may terminate or suspend, upon notice and hearing, all or any
portion of a franchise granted hereunder for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure of the operator to comply with the authorized fee schedule;
   (B)   Failure of the operator to comply with any provision of this chapter,
any franchise document issued in connection herewith, or any regulations of
NCDEHNR or of the United States which are applicable to a sanitary landfill
operated pursuant to the proposed or requested franchise;
   (C)   Failure of the operator to comply with any applicable provision of
Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances or of any county recycling ordinance, now
or hereafter enacted;
   (D)   Failure of the operator to comply with provisions of CERCLA/SARA or
RCRA which are applicable to a sanitary landfill operated pursuant to the
proposed or requested franchise; or
   (E)   Falsification of any information in the application for a franchise.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.07  ASSIGNABILITY.
   No franchise or any portion thereof may be without prior written
authorization of the Board.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect on or after May 1, 2000.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not to exceed the maximum allowable by law at the time of
the violation. Each day’s violation shall be treated as a separate offense.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to judicial
enforcement of this chapter by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction, or by mandatory or prohibitory injunction and
order of abatement, issuing from or through a court of competent jurisdiction,
wherein the offender is commanded to correct or cease the violations.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2001)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
      
151.   VOLUNTEER AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISION
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   SOLAR ENERGY FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150:  MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Authority
   
150.002   Jurisdiction
   
150.003   Title
   
150.004   Definitions
   
150.005   Fees
   
150.006   Mobile home registration
   
150.007   Effective date
Mobile Home or Travel Trailer Park Construction
   
150.020   Construction permit
   
150.021   Contents of park plan
   
150.022   Review of the plan
   
150.023   Plat approvals
   
150.024   Issuance of construction permit and certificate of compliance
Specifications for Mobile Home Parks
   
150.035   Size; conversions; signs; compliance, and the like
   
150.036   Manufactured home space
   
150.037   Streets and parking
   
150.038   Utility requirements
   
150.039   Connections; maintenance; vehicles
   
150.040   Recreation areas
   
150.041   Management
Specifications for Travel Trailer Parks
   
150.055   Applicability
   
150.056   Site development
   
150.057   Sanitary facilities, water supply, sewage, garbage collections,
utilities, and the like
Administration
   
150.070   Existing mobile home and travel trailer parks
   
150.071   Zoned areas
   
150.072   Registration of occupants
   
150.073   Inspection
   
150.074   Variances
   
150.075   Appeal to Board of Adjustment
   
150.076   Amending the chapter; who may petition
   
150.077   Procedure
   
150.078   Complaints regarding violations
   
150.079   Loss of an operating permit
   
150.080   Provisions of this chapter declared to be minimum requirements
 
   
150.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Ch. 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001  AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted under the authority granted by
the General Assembly of the state.
(G.S. § 153A-121)  (Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.002  JURISDICTION.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall not be applicable within the
incorporated areas of the county nor within any legally described
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction. Incorporated areas may request the
county to enforce this chapter within its jurisdiction by resolution.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.003  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “The Manufactured Housing and Travel Trailer
Park Ordinance” for the county.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.004  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used
herein shall be interpreted as follows.
   (B)   Tense and number.
      (1)   The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense
includes the present tense.
      (2)   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural
number includes the singular number.
   (C)   Word interpretations.
      (1)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (2)   The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. Beaufort County Commissioners acting as the Board of
Adjustment.
      COUNTY. The County of Beaufort, North Carolina.
      COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. County Commissioners of Beaufort County, North
Carolina.
      COUNTY PLANNER. County Planner for Beaufort County.
      DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation engaged in the development or the proposed development of a mobile
home or travel trailer park.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Director of Planning for Beaufort County or his
or her designated representative. In addition to the Director of Planning, the
HEALTH DIRECTOR or his or her designated representative also shall be
considered ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS for the purpose of enforcing all public health
provisions of this chapter and other applicable health codes adopted by the
County Board of Health.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A detached residential dwelling designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels or on
flatbeds or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied
as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations including but not limited to location on
jacks or other temporary or permanent foundations and connections to utilities
in accordance with local codes and ordinances. The unit shall be registered or
capable of being registered as a mobile home by the State Department of Motor
Vehicles. For the purpose of this chapter, MANUFACTURED HOME and MOBILE HOME
are one and the same. Therefore, the terms may be used interchangeably. A
travel trailer is not to be considered as a MOBILE HOME if it meets the
standards established for a travel trailer by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
      MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK or TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any tract upon
which two or more spaces are developed for mobile homes or travel trailers to
be located, rented, or optioned for purchase and occupied for dwelling or
sleeping purposes, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for the
privilege of locating a mobile home or travel trailer upon the site or tract or
for occupying any mobile home.
      MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK OR TRAVEL TRAILER PARK, MAJOR. Any park not
classified as a minor manufactured/mobile home park. (See § 150.005.)
      MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK OR TRAVEL TRAILER PARK, MINOR. Any park
that does not involve any of the following:
         (a)   The creation of more than the maximum number of lots; and
         (b)   The usage of more than the maximum allowable acreage in site or
tract size that is specifically permitted by ordinance as a minor manufactured/
mobile home or travel trailer. (See § 150.005.)
      MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER PARK CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued
by the Enforcement Officer to a developer for construction of a mobile home or
travel trailer park.
      NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL BARRIER. Any river, pond, canal, roadway, levee,
embankment, fence, hedge, tree row, or similar obstruction, which limits access
and/or visibility.
      PERSON. Includes firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, or corporation as well as an individual.
      SPACE. A plot of land within either a manufactured home park or travel
trailer park designed for either the accommodation of one mobile home or one
travel trailer.
      STRUCTURAL ADDITIONS. Any roofed, canopied, and enclosed porch or room or
structure, which is used in connection with a mobile home. A concrete slab with
no roof shall not be considered a STRUCTURAL ADDITION.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A wheeled vehicular portable structure built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and
recreational purposes, having a body width not exceeding eight feet. This is
also intended to include structures mounted on auto or truck bodies that are
referred to as CAMPERS.
      TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any tract of land upon which are located the minimum
number of travel trailer spaces and/or land area required by this chapter,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such service.
      USED or OCCUPIED. Includes the words intended, designed, arranged to be
used, or arranged to be occupied.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.005  FEES.
   Fees established in accordance with this section shall be paid upon
submission of a signed application. No request for approval will be considered
until the applicable fee is paid.
   (A)   Minor MHP or travel trailer park that is greater than one space but
not less than six spaces in a tract of property of a tract of property that is
three acres or less. Mobile home parks and/or travel trailer parks developed on
contiguous tracts and under single ownership shall be considered one tract for
the purpose of determining fees and the status of “major” or “minor”. The fee
is $50.
   (B)   Major MHP or travel trailer park that is greater than five spaces in a
tract of property or a tract of property that is greater than three acres in
size. The fee is $75.
   (C)   If an application is denied approval when reviewed by the Planning
Board, resubmission for approval shall require the payment of another
application fee.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.006  MOBILE HOME REGISTRATION.
   No persons shall place a mobile home in the county for the purpose of using
said mobile home for occupancy without first having obtained a mobile home
building permit from the County Inspections and Planning Department providing
that the mobile home meets the conditions as set forth under G.S. § 153A-138.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.007  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage on
December 4, 1995 or as amended by the County Board of Commissioners most
recently on October 2, 2006.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER PARK CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.020  CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall construct a mobile home park or a travel trailer park
or make any additions to an existing mobile home park or travel trailer park
that either alters the number of sites for mobile homes or travel trailers
within the park or affects the facilities required therein until first securing
a permit authorizing such construction or addition. The construction or
addition shall be in accordance with plans and specifications submitted with
the application.
   (B)   The application for a mobile home park or travel trailer park
construction permit shall be filed with the County Planning office at least 15
working days prior to the meeting of the County Planning Board at which time
the application is to be considered. The application will be reviewed by the
County Planner, Building Inspector, and the County Health Department. All
applications for a manufactured home or travel trailer park construction permit
will be accompanied by ten prints of a plat of the proposed park.
   (C)   Upon acceptance of an application by the Planning Board, the developer
or his or her agent must notify all adjacent property owners by certified mail
of the application. The list of adjacent property owners shall be prepared
using public data available in the Tax Assessor’s office. The applicant shall
proved a copy of the “green card” used for certified mail to the County Planner
to provide documentation of the notification.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021  CONTENTS OF PARK PLAN.
   (A)   Major manufactured home or travel trailer park. The plat shall be
drawn at a scale between 50 and 200 feet to the inch and shall show the
following:
      (1)   Title information shall include:
         (a)   Name of park;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone of owner(s);
         (c)   Name of developer;
         (d)   Name of registered surveyor;
         (e)   Scale, date, and north arrow; and
         (f)   Township, county, and state.
      (2)   Total acreage, total number of mobile home or travel trailer
spaces;
      (3)   Adjoining property owners;
      (4)   Street names inside park;
      (5)   Setback lines;
      (6)   Roads in vicinity (access roads and adjacent roads), small scale
location diagram showing all roads in the vicinity, and the relationship of the
site to major roads;
      (7)   Dimensions and bearings of exterior property lines;
      (8)   Land contours with vertical intervals of not more than two feet may
be required for all mobile home parks that have sufficient land area for 25
spaces or more and for all travel trailer parks that have sufficient land area
for 50 spaces or more;
      (9)   Mobile home or travel trailer spaces shall be well-defined and have
a number for each space;
      (10)   Surface water drainage plans and sedimentation and pollution
control plans approved by the state, when required;
      (11)   All structures in the park site (present or proposed);
      (12)   Open space for recreation and any recreation facilities;
      (13)   Method for surfacing roads within the park;
      (14)   Location and intensity of area lights, riser diagrams, and typical
connections to mobile homes or travel trailers, or a statement indicating that
the power companies will be responsible for design and installation of the
electric system;
      (15)   Source of water and water distribution system approved by the
County Health Department;
      (16)   Sanitary sewerage, if a private sewerage collection and disposal
system is used, plans and specifications approved by the County Health
Department must be submitted. If the system is not connected to sewerage
collection system, show location and size of septic tanks, trailers connected
to each septic tank, layout of drain fields, date, and result of soil tests; if
all the spaces in the park are the same dimensions, a single drawing showing
the location of the septic tank and the trailer placement may be sufficient for
the entire park. If the spaces are not the same dimensions, a drawing must be
provided for each space size or the location of the septic system and the
trailer placement must be shown for each space;
      (17)   Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, floodways, and floodplains (as
shown on the maps prepared by the Corps of Engineers for the Federal Flood
Insurance Administration and as shown on the maps of any applicable flood
hazard ordinance) and other conditions affecting the site;
      (18)   Zoning classification(s) of the park location and adjoining
properties, if applicable;
      (19)   Method of garbage disposal;
      (20)   In the case of any park located wholly or partly within a
floodplain or flood hazard area as such plain or area is designated in any
applicable floodplain or flood hazard ordinance, the Planning Board may require
evidence, which in its judgment is satisfactory to show compliance with such
ordinance;
      (21)   In the case of any park that is located wholly or partly within an
area of environmental concern as such is designated in the County Land Use Plan
and by the Coastal Resources Commission, the County Planning Board may require
evidence which, in its judgment, is satisfactory to show the issuance and
compliance with any necessary permits. Any costs associated with demonstrating
and maintaining compliance will be the responsibility of the developer;
      (22)   In the case of any park involving any facility, project of
development, undertaking, or development which may require a permit under any
federal, state, or local laws or regulations, the Planning Board may require
evidence which, in its judgment, is satisfactory to show the issuance of such
permit or the exemption of such facility, project, or development from the
requirement for such permit. The costs associated with conforming to any
federal, state, or local laws will be the responsibility of the developer; and/
or
      (23)   Any other information considered by either the developer or the
Planning Board to be pertinent to the approval of the application including an
environmental impact statement if the proposed park or expansion of an existing
park exceeds two acres in area and the Board deems it necessary due to the
nature of the land to be developed or peculiarities of the proposed layout,
advertising material to be used in renting lots or dwellings, and design data
and price ranges for any dwellings to be constructed. Any additional costs
incurred from requests made by the County Commissioners will be the
responsibility of the developer.
   (B)   Minor manufactured/mobile home/travel trailer park plan.
      (1)   In an effort to simplify and condense the review process for small
mobile home parks, which will have little or no impact on the county
development process, minor mobile home parks shall comply with the following.
         (a)   Greater than one but less than six spaces in a single tract.
Mobile home parks and/or travel trailer parks developed on contiguous tracts
and under single ownership shall be considered one tract for the purpose of
determining fees and the status of “major” or “minor”.
         (b)   Tract size is three acres or less. Mobile home parks and/or
travel trailer parks developed on contiguous tracts and under single ownership
shall be considered one tract for the purpose of determining fees and the
status of “major” or “minor”.
      (2)   The contents of a minor manufactured mobile home/travel trailer
park plan shall be consistent with the requirements of a major manufactured
mobile home/travel trailer park plan.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.022  REVIEW OF THE PLAN.
   (A)   Major manufactured mobile home/travel trailer park.
      (1)   The County Planner shall review the following to determine if the
proposed park plan is in accordance with the design standards set forth in this
chapter:
         (a)   Title information;
         (b)   Small scale location map;
         (c)   Dimensions and bearing of exterior property lines;
         (d)   Roads in the vicinity;
         (e)   Recreation areas;
         (f)   Method of surfacing roads within the park;
         (g)   Location of park;
         (h)   Street and lot design;
         (I)   Surface water drainage; and/or
         (j)   Coordinating the requirements of this chapter with those of the
County Health Department including but not limited to septic approval.
      (2)   If the County Planner disapproves the proposed park plan, the
reasons for such action and recommended changes shall be given to the park
developer or his or her agent.
      (3)   After the County Planner has approved conditionally the proposed
park plan, one approved copy shall be given to the developer or his or her
agent. The developer or his or her agent shall then seek approval of the
proposed park plan from the following.
         (a)   The District Highway Engineer of the State Highway Commission
shall review the proposed park plan to determine if the proposed access
conforms to the standards of the State Highway Commission.
         (b)   The County Building Inspector shall review the plans for mobile
home and travel trailer parks to determine if the proposed electrical system is
in accordance with electrical codes adopted by the County Commissioners. In
addition, the Building Inspector shall review buildings to be constructed in
the park.
         (c)   The County Soil and Water Conservation District shall review the
plan relative to drainage, erosion, and sedimentation control.
      (4)   Should any agency find deficiencies in the review of the plans of a
proposed manufactured housing or travel trailer park, that agency shall notify
the developer or his or her agent to allow him or her to correct such
deficiencies. Each agency shall notify the County Planner after reviewing the
proposed park plan and shall give him or her a statement of approval or
disapproval. If disapproved, then the reasons, therefor, shall be stated. The
County Planner will report all concerns to the Planning Board for its
deliberation.
   (B)   Minor manufactured home park /travel trailer park. The review of a
minor manufactured/mobile home/travel trailer park plat shall be consistent
with the review requirements of a major manufactured home park/travel trailer
park plan.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.023  PLAT APPROVALS.
   (A)   Major manufactured home/travel trailer park.
      (1)   After the County Planner has received reports from the agencies
listed in §
150.022, the County Planner shall present the proposed mobile home or travel
trailer park plans along with his or her recommendations to the Planning Board
at its next meeting.
      (2)   The County Planning Board shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the plat.
         (a)   If approved conditionally, the conditions and reasons thereof
shall be stated, and the Planning Board may or may not require the developer to
submit a revised plan.
         (b)   If the Planning Board should disapprove the plat, the reasons
for such action shall be stated, and recommendations made on the basis of which
the proposed development could be approved.
      (3)   Approval of the plat is authorization for the developer to proceed
with the construction of the mobile home or travel trailer park.
      (4)   Failure on the part of the County Planning Board to act within 60
days after the plat is submitted to the Board shall be deemed as approved.
   (B)   Minor manufactured home/travel trailer park.
      (1)   The County Planner shall present the proposed minor mobile home or
travel trailer park plans along with his or her recommendations to County
Environmental Health and Building Inspections staff.
      (2)   The county staff shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the plat.
         (a)   If approved conditionally, the conditions and reasons thereof
shall be stated, and the county staff may or may not require the developer to
submit a revised plan.
         (b)   If the county staff should disapprove the plan, the reasons for
such actions shall be stated, and recommendations made on the basis of which
the proposed development could be approved.
      (3)   Approval of the plat by county staff is authorization for the
developer to proceed with construction.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.024  ISSUANCE OF CONSTRUCTION PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   After approval of the plans for a mobile home park or travel trailer
park by the County Planning Board, the County Planner is authorized to issue a
construction permit. The intent of this permit is to enable the execution of
the plan in the field and shall not be construed to entitle the recipient to
offer spaces for rent or lease, or to operate a mobile home park as defined in
§
150.004(D).
   (B)   During this phase, all fieldwork shall be in accordance with the
approved plans and it shall be the responsibility of the developer to inform
the Building Inspector as to the progress of fieldwork so that timely
inspections may be made.
   (C)   If the construction of the park has not begun within 12 months from
the issue date of the construction permit, the construction permit shall become
null and void. However, the Planning Board may grant an extension of the
construction permit if the developer appears before the Board and shows cause.
If cause is not shown, the developer must repeat all the required steps of
procedure for securing approval as required by this chapter.
   (D)   When the developer has completed the construction of the mobile home/
travel trailer park or the designated stage, he or she shall apply to the
County Planner for an operating permit. The County Planner and a representative
of the County Health Department shall make an on-site inspection of the park.
      (1)   If the plan conforms to the park plan approved by the Board and
other agencies, the County Planner shall issue the developer an operating
permit, enabling operation of this park as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   If the plan fails to conform to the approved plan, the Enforcement
Officer shall delay issuance of the operating permit until it comes into
conformity.
      (3)   When a park is to be developed in stages, the proposed park plan
must be submitted for the entire development, and application for an operating
permit may be made for each stage developed.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.999
SPECIFICATIONS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 150.035  SIZE; CONVERSIONS; SIGNS; COMPLIANCE, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   A manufactured home park must be greater than three acres in size. The
only exemption to this rule of size is when not more than two mobile home
spaces are located on the same tract or parcel. Two mobile home spaces on a
single tract or parcel that is less than three acres in size can only be
allowed if the spaces are self-supporting with regard to water and septic
systems to be determined by the County Environmental Health Department.
   (B)   A manufactured housing subdivision cannot be converted to a
manufactured home park, unless the proposed conversion meets the requirements
of this chapter and receives Board approval.
   (C)   A manufactured home park cannot be converted to a manufactured home
subdivision unless it meets all the requirements of
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances. The sale of a single lot or space
within a manufactured home park shall be deemed converted to a subdivision
subject to
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   No other living compartment other than a Florida room or other pre-
fabricated structure specifically designed for mobile home use or extension
shall be added to any mobile home parked within the jurisdiction of this
chapter. Porches covered with a roof and open on three sides may be permitted
if yard space requirements of this chapter are not violated and the 100% repair
area of the septic system is maintained.
   (E)   Mobile home park identification signs shall not exceed 32 square feet
in area. Only indirect, nonflashing lighting shall be used for illumination.
The top portion of any sign shall not exceed 12 feet in height.
   (F)   The Board may require that the owner of the park shall provide and
maintain a five-foot wide buffer strip along any or all boundaries of the
manufactured home park planted with living evergreen trees or shrubbery, or
solid fencing at least five feet in height. Such buffer shall be planted in
such a manner as to be harmonious with the general character of the surrounding
neighborhood. Such buffer shall be subject to a final inspection of the
Enforcement Officer.
   (G)   Within a manufactured home park, one manufactured home may be used as
an administrative office.
   (H)   Convenience establishments of a commercial nature shall be limited to
food stores, coin- operated laundries, beauty parlors, and barbershops. These
may be permitted in mobile home parks subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Such establishments shall be subordinate to the residential use and
character of the park;
      (2)   Such establishments shall present no visible evidence, including
signage, of their commercial character from any portion of any residential
district outside the park;
      (3)   Such establishments shall be designed to serve the trade and
service needs of the park residents only;
      (4)   Such establishments shall be subject to Board approval; and
      (5)   Any conventional commercial establishments not shown on mobile home
park plans shall have prior certified approval of all applicable state and
county agencies before a construction permit shall be issued for such
establishments.
   (I)   The owner or operator of a manufactured home park shall not sell
manufactured homes on or within a manufactured home park unless the
manufactured home unit for sale shall be placed individually and separately
upon an existing manufactured home space where all design standards and
utilities have been completed as specified by this chapter.
   (J)   Any manufactured home unit not bearing a label or seal of compliance
of a recognized testing laboratory, such as Underwriter’s Laboratories or
similar testing service, shall be subject to inspection by the Building
Inspector.
   (K)   A detached storage building or structure with a roof and enclosed on
all sides may be allowed in the side or rear yard of a manufactured home space,
subject to the approval by the County Environmental Health Department and the
County Planner. Such structure shall not exceed 200 square feet in floor area,
and shall be located in such a way as not to negatively affect the health,
safety, and welfare of the manufactured home park residents. Such structure may
be constructed of factory fabricated transportable materials.
   (L)   Mobile homes connected with a fair, carnival, or circus may be parked
for the duration of the fair, carnival, or circus, but not to exceed 15 days,
provided that all sewage and solid waste is disposed of in a manner approved by
the County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.036  MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE.
   (A)   Minimum lot size is dependent upon the size of the septic system. The
lot must be large enough to accommodate the water system, and both the septic
system and the repair area. The septic system must be 100 feet from a well used
as the drinking water source for park residents. If a community or public water
system is utilized, the water supply lines must be ten feet from all parts of
the septic system. All square-foot requirements are subject to the approval of
the County Environmental Health Department.
   (B)   Each manufactured home space shall be located on ground not
susceptible to flooding and graded so as to prevent any water from ponding or
accumulating on the premises.
   (C)   Each manufactured home space shall be clearly defined by means of
concrete or iron pipe markers placed at all corners.
   (D)   There shall be at least 20 feet clearance between manufactured homes
including manufactured homes parked end to end. No manufactured home shall be
located closer than 20 feet to any building within the park, 15 feet from any
property line, and at least 20 feet from the edge of the right-of-way of any
interior street and 30 feet from the edge of the right-of-way of any publicly
maintained street or road.
   (E)   The manufactured home shall be provided with anchors and tie downs as
required by the manufacturers specifications of the State Department of
Insurance. Each manufactured homeowner shall be responsible for securing his or
her individual manufactured home to anchors.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.037  STREETS AND PARKING.
   (A)   Convenient access to each manufactured home space shall be provided by
streets or drives with a minimum right-of-way as required by the State
Department of Transportation for similar residential streets. A minimum roadbed
of 20 feet shall be graded, drained, and all-weather surfaced, for automobile
and emergency vehicle circulation within the park. Maintenance of such streets
shall be provided by the owner or operator of the park or NCDOT.
   (B)   Permanent dead-end streets and cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 1,000 feet
in length and shall be provided with a turn-around of at least 100 feet in
diameter.
   (C)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and no
street shall intersect at less than 60 degrees. Where a street intersects a
public street or road, the design standards of the State Highway Commission
shall apply. Street jogs of less than 125 feet shall not be allowed.
   (D)   Proper sight line shall be maintained at all intersection of streets.
Measured along the centerline, there shall be a clear sight triangle as
required by the NCDOT for those intersecting a state right-of-way. All interior
drives shall maintain a sight distance triangle of 75 feet. No building or
obstruction that impedes vision beyond the extent noted above shall be
permitted in the area.
   (E)   New street names shall not be duplicates and are subject to the
requirements of the County Addressing Ordinance.
   (F)   All streets in the manufactured home park shall be adequately
illuminated from sunset until sunrise. The minimum street light shall be a 17S
wan mercury vapor (approximately 7000 lumen class), or its equivalent, spaced
at intervals of not more than 300 feet.
   (G)   A minimum of two automobile parking spaces, all-weather surfaced,
shall be provided adjacent to each manufactured home space, but shall not be
located within any public right-of-way or within any street in the park.
   (H)   All spaces within a manufactured home park shall be numbered
sequentially. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The
address number of each lot must be clearly displayed so as to be legible from
the road. The numbers must be of a contrasting color to the background, as
defined in the County Addressing Ordinance. In the event of an amendment to the
Addressing Ordinance, the strictest regulation will apply.
   (I)   Where more than five rural mailboxes are used for mail delivery, the
approval of the local Post Office Department and the District Highway Engineer
shall be required.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.038  UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water systems.
      (1)   An accessible, adequate, safe, and palatable supply of water shall
be provided in each manufactured home park. Where a county or municipal water
supply is available, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used
exclusively.
      (2)   When a county or municipal supply is not available, a community
water supply shall be developed and its supply used exclusively in accordance
with the standards of the Sanitary Engineering Division of the State Board of
Health and the County Health Department. Individual wells may be used and must
comply with state standards and regulations.
   (B)   Sewage systems.
      (1)   Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall be provided in
all manufactured home parks. Collection systems and sewage treatment plants
complying with the requirements of the State Department of Water and Air
Resources shall be provided. Plans for sewage collection systems and treatment
facilities shall be submitted to the State Department of Water and Air
Resources. Individual septic tank systems can be considered if soil,
topography, and groundwater conditions are favorable.
      (2)   Each manufactured home space shall be provided with at least a
four-inch diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall be located on
each space that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
      (3)   A two-foot by two-foot concrete apron shall be installed around all
sewer connection riser pipes for support and protection. The sewer connection
shall be located a distance of at least 100 feet from a water supply relying on
wells. A distance of only ten feet is needed between the septic and water
systems when the drinking water is drawn from a community or public water
supply.
      (4)   The sewer connection shall have a nominal inside diameter of at
least four inches, and the slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-
fourth inch per foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipeline only,
without any branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight, including
connection from trailer to sewer riser pipe.
      (5)   All material used for sewer connection shall be semi-rigid,
corrosion resistant, nonabsorbent, and durable. The inner surface shall be
smooth.
      (6)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer pipe, when a mobile
home does not occupy a space. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from the
rise. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least four inches above-ground
elevation.
   (C)   Solid waste disposal systems.
      (1)   The storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste in the
manufactured home park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards,
rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or
pollution.
      (2)   For each lot, the minimum requirements will be two cans of at least
30-gallon capacity each, which are elevated at least one foot off the ground.
All trash will be contained inside these two cans, or will be subject to
penalties and fines outlined at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.039  CONNECTIONS; MAINTENANCE; VEHICLES.
   (A)   All electrical connections shall meet the National Electrical Code
standards.
   (B)   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestations. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform to the requirements of the County
Health Director.
   (C)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulation of debris, which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, and other
pests.
   (D)   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage.
Lumber, pipe, and other building material shall be stored at least one foot
above-ground.
   (E)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   (F)   The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Parks shall be so
maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac, and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open areas
shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
   (G)   No inoperable motor vehicle shall remain in a manufactured home park
for a period longer than 60 days.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.040  RECREATION AREAS.
   Each manufactured home park shall provide and maintain 400 square feet of
recreation area for each mobile home space, unless the park is less than or
equal to 10,000 square feet in area. The minimum recreation area shall be at
least 2,500 square feet.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.041  MANAGEMENT.
   In each manufactured home park, the permittee or duly authorized attendant
or caretaker shall be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its
facilities, and equipment in a clean, orderly, safe, and sanitary condition.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
§ 150.055  APPLICABILITY.
   The process for the approval of travel trailer parks is identical to that of
manufactured home parks. However, the design or site development standards
differ. The design standards for travel trailer parks follow in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.056  SITE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Every travel trailer space shall be a minimum of 40 by 70 feet.
   (B)   There shall be a minimum distance of 15 feet between each travel
trailer and structure.
   (C)   Parking spaces sufficient to accommodate at least one motor and
camping vehicle shall be constructed within each space. No more than one
camping vehicle may be parked on any space.
   (D)   All spaces developed adjacent to a public street shall be set back a
minimum of 40 feet from the street right-of-way.
   (E)   The spaces shall be graded to prevent any water from ponding or
accumulating within the park. Each space shall be properly graded to obtain a
reasonably flat site and to provide adequate drainage away from the space.
   (F)   The park shall have all weather roads that directly abut each space.
All road rights-of-way shall have a minimum width of 20 feet. Rights-of-way for
one-way roads may have a minimum width of 12 feet. In areas of heavy vehicle
use, wider rights-of-way shall be required.
   (G)   No space shall have direct vehicular access into a public road.
   (H)   The park shall be developed with proper drainage ditches. All banks
shall be sloped and seeded.
   (I)   Cul-de-sac or dead-end roads shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length
measured from the entrance to the center of the turn-around, unless a turn-
around of a minimum of 60 feet in diameter is provided every 1,000 feet. Any
road designed to be permanently closed shall have a turn-around at the closed
end with a minimum right-of-way diameter of 80 feet.
   (J)   When the park has more than one direct access to a public road the
accesses shall not measure less than 300 feet apart or measure closer than 300
feet to either public road intersection unless unusual site conditions demand
otherwise.
   (K)   Each park with more than ten spaces shall have a central structure or
structures that will provide separate toilet facilities for each sex. This
structure may also contain coin-operated machines for the park residents use
only, provided there is no exterior advertising. Vending machines also may be
permitted in a sheltered area.
   (L)   No swimming pool or bathing area shall be installed, altered,
improved, or used without compliance with applicable regulations. No bathing
area shall be used without the approval of the County Health Department.
   (M)   Signs for identification of parks shall not exceed four feet by eight
feet at the entrance to the park.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057  SANITARY FACILITIES, WATER SUPPLY, SEWAGE, GARBAGE COLLECTIONS,
UTILITIES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Sanitary facilities.
      (1)   All toilet, shower, lavatory, and laundry facilities shall be
provided and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and kept in good
repair at all times. They shall be safely and adequately lighted. Facilities
shall be easily accessible and conveniently located. All toilet, shower,
lavatory, and laundry room facilities shall be acceptable to the County Health
Department and shall be in conformity with all county codes.
      (2)   All buildings shall be constructed in accordance with the Building
Code of the county.
   (B)   Water supply. A safe, adequate, and conveniently located water supply
must be provided for each park. No water supply shall be installed, altered, or
used without the approval of the County Health Department.
   (C)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   Sewage dumping stations shall be approved by the County Health
Department. Each park shall provide at least one sewage dumping station unless
all spaces have connection to an approved septic system.
      (2)   No method of sewage disposal shall be installed, altered, or used
without the approval of the County Health Department. All sewage wastes from
each park, including wastes from toilets, showers, bathtubs, lavatories,
washbasins, sinks, and water-using appliances not herein mentioned, shall be
piped into the parks sewage disposal system or systems.
   (D)   Garbage and refuse disposal.
      (1)   The park owner is responsible for refuse collection. All refuse
shall be collected at least weekly or more if the need is indicated.
      (2)   Storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall be so managed as
not to create health hazards, rodent harborage, insect-breeding areas,
accidents, fire hazards, or air pollution.
   (E)   Electric service. Where electrical service is used, the installation
and use of such facilities shall conform with all applicable codes. Such
facilities shall be inspected by the County Electrical Inspector.
   (F)   Recreation areas. Each park ten spaces or larger shall provide
recreation areas to serve the needs of the anticipated users. One-half acre of
level well-drained ground for every 15 spaces shall be utilized as a recreation
area. The park owner is responsible for the development and maintenance of the
recreation areas.
   (G)   Parking. It shall be unlawful for a person to park or store a
manufactured home in a travel trailer park. However, one manufactured home may
be allowed within a travel trailer park to be used as an office or residence of
persons responsible for the operation and maintenance of the travel trailer
park.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.070  EXISTING MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   Existing manufactured home parks that provide manufactured home spaces
having a width or area less than that described in §
150.056 may continue to operate with spaces of existing width and area, but in
no event shall any such nonconforming mobile home parks be allowed to expand
unless such extension meets the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All structural additions to mobile homes other than those which are
built into the unit and designed to fold out or extend from it shall be erected
only after a building permit has been obtained. Such additions shall conform to
the Building Code of the county, where applicable, or shall meet the standards
of special regulations adopted with respect to such additions. The building
permit shall specify whether such structural additions may remain permanently,
must be removed when the manufactured home is removed, or must be removed
within a specified length of time after the manufactured home is removed.
Structural alterations existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
removed within 30 days after the manufactured home, which they serve, is moved
unless attached to another manufactured home on the same site within that
period.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.071  ZONED AREAS.
   In areas of the county where a zoning ordinance is in effect, manufactured
home parks shall be permitted only in conformance with the regulations of the
zoned district in which they are located.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.072  REGISTRATION OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every manufactured home park owner or operator shall maintain an
accurate register containing a record of all occupants and owners of
manufactured homes in the park. The register shall be available for inspection
at all times by authorized county representatives.
   (B)   The register shall contain the following information and shall be
retained by the manufactured home park owner or operator for a period of one
year from the time occupancy ceases:
      (1)   Name of owner or occupant;
      (2)   Mobile home space number;
      (3)   Make, model, and registration number of mobile homes; and
      (4)   Date when occupancy within the mobile home park begins and date
when occupancy within the park ceases.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.073  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The County Health Department, the County Building Inspector, and/or
the Enforcement Officer are hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter, it shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of manufactured home
parks to give these agencies free access to such premises at reasonable times
for the purposes of inspection.
   (B)   The person to whom an operating permit for a manufactured home park is
issued shall operate the park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide
adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities, and keep equipment
in good repair and in clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   The park owner or operator shall notify park occupants of all
applicable provisions of this chapter and inform him or her of his or her
duties and responsibilities under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.074  VARIANCES.
   Where strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause
unnecessary hardship of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
the County Planning Board may authorize a variance, if such variance can be
made without destroying the intent of this chapter. Any variance thus
authorized shall be entered in the minutes of the County Planning Board and the
reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set forth.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.075  APPEAL TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The County Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from and review
any orders, requirements, decisions, or determination made by the Enforcement
Officer charged with enforcement of this chapter. The powers, duties, and
procedures shall be in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 153A-345.1. An
appeal from the decision of the Board of Adjustment may be made to the County
Superior Court.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.076  AMENDING THE CHAPTER; WHO MAY PETITION.
   A petition for an amendment of this chapter may be initiated by the Board of
County Commissioners, the Planning Board, any department or agency of the
county, or any citizen, within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.077  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consider and make recommendations to the
County Commissioners concerning each proposed amendment.
   (B)   No amendment shall be adopted by the County Commissioners until after
public notice and hearing. Before taking such lawful action, as it may deem
advisable, the County Commissioners shall consider the Planning Board
recommendation on each proposed amendment. If no recommendation is received
from the Planning Board within 45 days after the public hearing, the proposed
amendment shall be deemed to have been approved by the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.078  COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the
causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Building Inspector. The
Building Inspector shall record properly such complaint, immediately
investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.079  LOSS OF AN OPERATING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any mobile home or travel trailer park that is found to be in
violation of this chapter will cease entering into new leases and shall cease
park operations at the end of the rental period, but no later than the end of a
40-day grace period beginning from the date notice was given of permit
violation. The owner and operator of the park shall be jointly and severally
liable to existing tenants for fulfillment of contractual obligations unless
the violation is due to an act or condition beyond his or her control. Unless
an inspection shows the violation to have been corrected before the end of the
40-day grace period, the permit for all spaces shall be revoked.
   (B)   Once the 40-day grace period has ended, if the owner has not corrected
the violation he or she shall be required to re-submit his or her mobile home
park plan in compliance with this chapter in order to get an operating permit.
Upon the revocation of the operating license, all leases shall be deemed
automatically terminated and the park owner or operator may only collect rent
due for any preceding month or portion thereof and in no event shall the owner
or operator keep or collect a larger percentage of the entire rent for the
entire lease term than would be due on the basis of actual occupancy time as a
percentage of the entire lease term. Tenants shall be notified by certified
mail within three days of the termination of his or her leases on account of
the revocation of the operating permit and his or her right to have 30 days
with no rent liability for such period to remove his or her mobile homes,
travel trailers, and property from the park.
   (C)   Once the operating permit is revoked, the owner or operator of the
park shall continue for 30 days to perform services at the park deemed
necessary by the Enforcement Officer and the County Health Department for the
health and safety of the tenants, and the tenants shall be given 30 days after
the date of revocation of the permit to remove his or her mobile homes, travel
trailers, and property from the park, and the tenants shall not be liable for
rent on account of such 30-day period.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.080  PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER DECLARED TO BE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements,
adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and general
welfare. Wherever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted regulations, the most restrictive or
that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
§ 150.999  PENALTY.
   Authority for the enforcement of this chapter is provided under G.S. § 153A-
123. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances), shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $50 or
imprisoned for no more than 30 days per offense. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006)
CHAPTER 151:  VOLUNTEER AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Authority
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Definitions
   
151.005   Certification and qualifications of farmland
   
151.006   Subdivision ordinance and Zoning Ordinance review
   
151.007   Building permit registration
   
151.008   Consultation authority
   
151.009   State agency notification
   
151.010   Legal provisions; amendments
   
151.011   Adoption; enactment
   
151.012   Revocation, enforcement, and renewal of conservation agreements
   
151.013   Conservation agreement
Agricultural Advisory Board
   
151.025   Creation
   
151.026   Membership; requirements
   
151.027   Tenure
   
151.028   Vacancies
   
151.029   Removal
   
151.030   Funding
   
151.031   Procedure
   
151.032   Duties
Creation of Voluntary Agricultural Districts
   
151.045   Regions
   
151.046   Implementation
   
151.047   Education
   
151.048   Addition and withdrawal
Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedure
   
151.060   Application procedure
   
151.061   Approval procedure
   
151.062   Appeal
Waiver of Water and Sewer or All Utility Assessments
   
151.075   No connection required
   
151.076   Abeyance
   
151.077   Termination of abeyance
   
151.078   Suspension of statute of limitations
   
151.079   Other statutory abeyance procedures
   
151.080   Conflicts with water and/or sewer system construction and improvement
grants
Public Hearings
   
151.095   Purpose
   
151.096   Procedure
Notification
   
151.110   Record notice of proximity to voluntary agricultural district
   
151.111   Signage
   
151.112   Maps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  TITLE.
   A chapter of the Board of County Commissioners of the county entitled,
“Beaufort County Voluntary Agricultural District Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.002  AUTHORITY.
   The subchapters and sections of this chapter are adopted pursuant to
authority conferred by G.S. §§ 106-735 through 106-744 and G.S. Ch. 153A.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.003  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote agricultural values and the
general welfare of the county and more specifically, increase identity and
pride in the agricultural community and its way of life; encourage the economic
and financial health of agriculture, horticulture, and forestry; and increase
protection from non-farm development and other negative impacts on properly
managed farms.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. Beaufort County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Beaufort County Board of Commissioners.
   CHAIRPERSON. Chairperson of the Beaufort County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   CHAPTER. Beaufort County Voluntary Agricultural District Ordinance.
   DISTRICT. Voluntary Agricultural District as established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.005  CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATIONS OF FARMLAND.
   To secure county certification as qualifying farmland in a Voluntary
Agricultural District, a farm must:
   (A)   Be participating in the Farm Present-Use-Value Taxation Program
established by G.S. §§ 105-277.2 through 105-277.7, or is otherwise determined
by the county to meet all the qualifications of this Program set forth in G.S.
§ 105-277.3, and the farm, or farms, will be identified by parcel
identification number (PIN);
   (B)   Be the subject of a conservation agreement between the county and the
owner of such land that prohibits non-farm use or development of such land for
a period of at least ten years, except for the creation of not more than three
lots that meet applicable county building and subdivision regulations.
Permitted land use in the conservation agreement include agriculture,
aquaculture, agritourism, forestry, horticulture, outside recreation, packing,
processing, storage, marketing of agricultural products, and maintenance of
drainage ditches and roads. Prohibited uses include any or all construction or
placing buildings, roads, signs, billboards or other advertising, utilities
(excluding utilities in the public interest), or other structures on or above
the ground that does not support permitted land use, dumping or placing of
soil, or other substance or materials as landfill, or dumping or placing of
trash, waste, or unsightly or offensive materials. A conservation agreement
designated by the landowner to sustain, encourage, and promote agriculture must
be executed by the landowner and recorded with the Advisory Board, which shall
record a certified copy of such with the County Register of Deeds. The
landowner will be given at least a 24-hour prior notice by the Agricultural
Advisory Board before a compliance inspection of the land enrolled in the
conservation agreement; and
   (C)   Be located in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.006  SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE AND ZONING ORDINANCE REVIEW.
   Developers of major subdivisions or planned unit developments shall
designate on preliminary development plans, the existence of the districts
within one-half aerial mile of the proposed development.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.007  BUILDING PERMIT REGISTRATION.
   The county shall require persons applying for a building permit within one-
half aerial mile of a Voluntary Agricultural District to sign the following
statement, which shall be maintained at the office of the agency administering
this chapter on behalf of the Advisory Board: “I have reviewed the most current
Beaufort County Voluntary Agricultural District Map and I understand that
agricultural activities include, but are not limited to the following:
pesticide spraying, manure spreading, machinery operations, livestock
operations, burning, logging, and other common farming and forestry activities
may take place in these districts any time during the day or night”.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.008  CONSULTATION AUTHORITY.
   The Advisory Board may consult with the State Cooperative Extension, the
County Soil and Water Conservation District, the State Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services, and with any other individual, agency, or
organization the Advisory Board deems necessary to properly conduct its
business.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.009  STATE AGENCY NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   A copy of this chapter shall be sent to the Office of the State
Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the Board of Commissioners,
the County Office of the State Cooperative Extension, and the Soil and Water
Conservation District office after adoption.
   (B)   At least annually, the county shall submit a written report to the
Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services on the county’s Agricultural
District Program, including the following information:
      (1)   The number of landowners enrolled;
      (2)   The number of acres enrolled;
      (3)   The number of acres certified during the reporting period;
      (4)   The number of acres denied during the reporting period;
      (5)   The number of acres for which applications are pending;
      (6)   Copies of any amendments to this chapter; and
      (7)   Any other information the Advisory Board deems useful.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.010  LEGAL PROVISIONS; AMENDMENTS.
   After notification and in consultation with the Agricultural District
Advisory Board, this chapter may be amended from time to time by the County
Board of Commissioners, subject to a public hearing, notice given 30 days
prior, and in consultation with the Agricultural Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.011  ADOPTION; ENACTMENT.
   The County Board of Commissioners hereby adopts and enacts this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.012  REVOCATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND RENEWAL OF CONSERVATION AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Revocation and enforcement. By providing written notice to the
Advisory Board, a landowner of qualifying farmland within a Voluntary
Agricultural District may revoke the conservation agreement, or the Advisory
Board may revoke the same conservation agreement based on noncompliance by the
landowner, subject to the same provisions as contained in §
151.062 for appeal of denials. Such revocation shall result in loss of
qualifying farm status and loss of eligibility to participate in a district.
Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor the Board
of Commissioners shall revoke any agricultural district prior to its
expiration. If the Advisory Board shall revoke this agricultural district for
cause, the landowner shall have the appeal rights set forth in §
151.062. Transfers of land in Voluntary Agricultural Districts due to death of
the landowner, sale, or gift shall not revoke the agricultural district unless
the land no longer qualifies for the Present-Use-Value Taxation Program or, in
the event that there are water or sewer assessments held in abeyance, the new
owners fail to agree in writing to accept liability for those assessments in
the event that the land is withdrawn either voluntarily or involuntarily from
the district. Enforcement of the terms of an agricultural district for land
enrolled in a Voluntary Agricultural District shall be limited to revocation of
the agricultural district and the benefits derived therefrom.
   (B)   Renewal. A conservation agreements for land within a Voluntary
Agricultural District shall be automatically renewed unless the landowner
provides 30-day written notice to the Advisory Board of intent not to renew.
Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor the Board
of Commissioners shall fail to renew any conservation agreement unless this
chapter or its authorizing legislation has been repealed.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.013  CONSERVATION AGREEMENT.
 
Having been approved by the Beaufort County Agricultural Advisory Board and
approved by the Beaufort County Board of Commissioners, I/we agree to sustain,
promote, and encourage agriculture in the Voluntary Agricultural District,
support protection against nuisance suits, undesired non-farm development, and
other negative impacts on participating farms. I/we agree not to engage in any
uses not permitted by the Beaufort County Voluntary Agricultural District
Ordinance on land enrolled in the program.

I/we agree to voluntarily preserve and protect the conservation values of my/
our property more completely described in the attachments hereto by prohibiting
non-farm uses of the property for a period often ten years from the date of
signing of this Agreement, except for the creation of not more than three lots
that meet applicable zoning and/or subdivision regulations.

This Agreement may be revoked by written notice to the County Agricultural
Advisory Board, or the County Agricultural Advisory Board may revoke the
Agreement based on non-compliance by the landowner. The landowner will be given
at least 24-hour prior notice by the Agricultural Advisory Board before a
compliance inspection of the land enrolled in the conservation agreement.
 
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD
§ 151.025  CREATION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall establish the County Agricultural Advisory
Board to implement the provisions of this program in accordance with G.S. §
106-739.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.026  MEMBERSHIP; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall consist of no less than seven members
appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   Each Advisory Board member, except those serving in an ex-
officio capacity, shall be a county resident or landowner.
      (2)   At least six of the members shall be actively engaged in farming,
horticulture, and/or forestry, or related industry. Of the members actively
engaged in farming, horticulture, and/or forestry, there shall be at least one
such member from each township in the county. There will be one Board member
selected at-large. This determination shall be made without reference to ex-
officio members.
      (3)   The members actively engaged in farming, horticulture, and/or
forestry, as well as other members, shall be selected for appointment by the
Board of Commissioners from the names of individuals submitted to the Board of
Commissioners by the County Office of the State Cooperative Extension, County
Soil and Water Conservation District Board of Supervisors, nonprofit
agricultural organizations, conservation organizations, agribusinesses,
horticultural businesses, forestry businesses, and the public at large.
      (4)   Additional members may be appointed to the Board in an ex-officio
capacity from the State Cooperative Extension, or the County Soil and Water
Conservation District Board of Supervisors. Members serving in an ex-officio
capacity shall neither vote nor count toward quorum requirements.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.027  TENURE.
   (A)   The initial Board is to consist of two appointees for terms of one
year; two appointees for terms of two years; and three appointees for terms of
three years. Thereafter, all appointments are to be for terms of three years,
with reappointment permitted up to three consecutive terms.
   (B)   Reappointment is permitted after three terms is permitted after a full
year off the Board. The terms for the appointment of the initial Advisory Board
will be determined by lottery.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.028  VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy on the Advisory Board is to be filled by the Board of
Commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.029  REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Advisory Board may be removed by the Board of
Commissioners upon a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners. No cause for removal
shall be required.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.030  FUNDING.
   The Board of Commissioners may appropriate funds for the Agricultural
Advisory Board to perform its duties. A budget request will be presented to the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.031  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The Chairperson
shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the Advisory Board. In
the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall
preside and shall exercise all the powers of the Chairperson. Additional
officers may be elected as needed.
   (B)   Determination of procedure. The Advisory Board may adopt rules of
procedure not inconsistent with this chapter or with other provisions of state
law.
   (C)   Advisory Board year. The Advisory Board shall use the county fiscal
year as its meeting year.
   (D)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Advisory Board may specify in its
rules of procedure or upon the request of at least a majority of the Advisory
Board membership.
      (2)   A meeting shall be held at least annually and notice of any
meetings to the members shall be in writing, unless otherwise agreed to by all
Advisory Board members.
      (3)   Meeting dates and times shall be posted as far in advance as
possible on the door of the meeting site and by advertisement in local
newspapers or by other means of public dissemination of the meeting dates as
may be agreed upon by at least a majority of the Advisory Board membership. All
meetings shall be open to the public.
   (E)   Majority vote and quorum requirements. All issues shall be decided by
a majority vote of the members of the Advisory Board present, except as
otherwise stated herein. A QUORUM is defined as at least two-thirds of the
members in attendance. No business may be conducted by the Advisory Board
without a quorum present.
   (F)   Records. The Advisory Board shall keep minutes of the proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the
Advisory Board, or its designee, and shall be a public record.
   (G)   Administrative. The Advisory Board may contract with the State
Cooperative Extension office to serve the Advisory Board for record-keeping,
correspondence, application procedures under this chapter, and whatever
services the Board needs to complete its duties.
   (H)   Jurisdiction. The Advisory Board may adopt rules of procedure not
inconsistent with this chapter or with other provisions of state law.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.032  DUTIES.
   The Advisory Board shall:
   (A)   Review and approve or disapprove applications of landowners for
enrollment of qualified farmland, horticultural land, or forestland in
Voluntary Agricultural Districts;
   (B)   Make recommendations concerning the establishment and modification of
Voluntary Agricultural Districts;
   (C)   Conduct public hearings;
   (D)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on projects, programs, or issues
affecting the agricultural economy and agricultural, horticultural, or forestry
activities within the county that will affect agricultural districts;
   (E)   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments to this
chapter;
   (F)   Perform other agricultural, horticultural, and forestry-related tasks
or duties assigned by the Board of Commissioners;
   (G)   Develop a draft countywide farmland protection plan as defined in G.S.
§ 106-744(e) for presentation to the Board of Commissioners; and/or
   (H)   Study additional methods of protection for farming, horticulture,
forestry, and the attendant land base, and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
CREATION OF VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
§ 151.045  REGIONS.
   The county is hereby divided into six regions as defined below:
   (A)   Bath Township;
   (B)   Chocowinity Township;
   (C)   Long Acre Township;
   (D)   Pantego Township;
   (E)   Richland Township; and
   (F)   Washington Township.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.046  IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   In order to implement the purposes stated in §
151.003, this program provides for the creation of Voluntary Agricultural
Districts which meet the following standards.
      (1)   The district shall meet the requirements necessary to qualify for
enrollment in the Farm Present-Use-Value Taxation Program.
      (2)   The district shall contain one or more qualified farms within areas
designated by the Advisory Board.
   (B)   All land enrolled in a region (township), defined in §
151.045, shall be part of a single district. If a single farm has acreage in
two or more regions, the farm shall participate in the district where the
largest acreage is found. All land in a region, as defined in §
151.045, shall be treated as a single district.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.047  EDUCATION.
   The county may take such action as it deems appropriate through the Advisory
Board or other entities or individuals to encourage the formation of the
districts and to further their purposes and objectives, including the
implementation of a public information program to reasonably inform landowners
of the Voluntary Agricultural District Program.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.048  ADDITION AND WITHDRAWAL.
   (A)   Qualifying farmland in a region with an existing district shall be
added to the district as herein provided.
   (B)   In the event that one or more participants in the district withdraw
and the acreage in the district becomes less than the minimum acreage required
or results in the remaining land being noncontiguous, a district continues to
exist so long as there is one qualifying farm.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
APPLICATION, APPROVAL, AND APPEAL PROCEDURE
§ 151.060  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A landowner may apply to participate in the Voluntary Agricultural
District Program by making application to the Chairperson of the Advisory Board
or a designated staff-person. The application shall be on forms provided by the
Advisory Board. A non-refundable application fee of $50 is due when the
application is submitted. The application to participate in a district may be
filed with the application for certification of qualifying farmland by parcel
identification number (PIN).
   (B)   A conservation agreement (required by G.S. § 106-737) to sustain,
encourage, and promote agriculture must be executed by the landowner and
recorded with the Advisory Board, which shall record a certified copy of such
with the County Register of Deeds. Permitted uses include agriculture,
horticulture, forestry, and outdoor recreation.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.061  APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon submission of the application to the Advisory Board, the Advisory
Board shall meet within 60 days to approve or disapprove the application. The
Chairperson shall notify the applicant by first class mail of approval or
disapproval of participation in the district.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, the Chairperson will forward copies
immediately to the following offices which shall be asked to provide comments,
if any, to the Advisory Board prior to the date set for the Advisory Board vote
on the application:
      (1)   The County Tax Assessor;
      (2)   The County Center of the State Cooperative Extension;
      (3)   The County Soil and Water Conservation District;
      (4)   The County Manager; and/or
      (5)   The County Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.062  APPEAL.
   (A)   If an application is denied by the Advisory Board, the petitioner
shall have 30 days to appeal the decision to the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be presented in writing. The decision of the Board
of Commissioners is final.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
WAIVER OF WATER AND SEWER OR ALL UTILITY ASSESSMENTS
§ 151.075  NO CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   A landowner belonging to the district shall not be required to connect
to the county or municipal water and/or sewer systems.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to utilities that are not owned by the
county unless the county has entered into an agreement with the entity(ies)
owning the utilities and that agreement provides that this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.076  ABEYANCE.
   Water and sewer assessments shall be held in abeyance, without interest, for
farms in a district, until improvements on such property are connected to the
water or sewer system for which the assessment was made.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.077  TERMINATION OF ABEYANCE.
   When the period of abeyance ends, the assessment is payable in accordance
with the terms set out in the assessment resolution.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.078  SUSPENSION OF STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Statutes of limitations are suspended during the time that any
assessment is held in abeyance without interest.
   (B)   The landowner may be required to sign an acknowledgment (that may be
incorporated into the conservation agreement) of the abeyance of the statute of
limitations upon collecting water and sewer assessments, or other utility
assessments.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.079  OTHER STATUTORY ABEYANCE PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this section is intended to diminish the authority of the county
to hold assessments in abeyance under G.S. § 153A-201, or other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.080  CONFLICTS WITH WATER AND/OR SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND
IMPROVEMENT GRANTS.
   To the extent that this section conflicts with the terms of federal, state,
or other grants under which county utility systems are constructed, this
section shall not apply.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
PUBLIC HEARINGS
§ 151.095  PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, no state or local public agency or governmental
unit may formally initiate any action to condemn any interest in qualifying
farmland within a district until such agency or unit has requested the Advisory
Board to hold a public hearing on the proposed condemnation.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.096  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receiving a request, the Advisory Board shall publish notice
describing the proposed action in the appropriate newspapers of the county
within five business days of the request, and will in the same notice notify
the public of a public hearing on the proposed condemnation, to be held within
ten days of receipt of the request.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall meet to review:
      (1)   Whether the need for the project has been satisfactorily
established by the agency or unit of government involved, including a review of
any fiscal impact analysis conducted by the agency involved; and
      (2)   Whether there are alternatives to the proposed action that have
less impact and are less disruptive to the agricultural activities of the
district within which the proposed action is to take place.
   (C)   The Advisory Board shall consult with the county agricultural
extension agent and any other individuals, agencies, or organizations deemed by
the Advisory Board to be necessary for its review of the proposed action.
   (D)   (1)   Within five days after the hearing, the Advisory Board shall
make a report containing its findings and recommendations regarding the
proposed action.
      (2)   The report shall be made available to the public prior to its being
conveyed to the decision-making body of the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (E)   There will be a period of ten days allowed for public comment on the
report of the Advisory Board.
   (F)   After the ten-day period for public comment has expired, the Advisory
Board shall submit a final report containing all of its findings and
recommendations regarding the proposed action to the decision-making body of
the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (G)   (1)   The total time period, from the day that a request for a hearing
has been received to the day that a final report is issued, to the decision-
making body of the agency proposing the acquisition, shall not exceed 30 days.
      (2)   If the agency agrees to an extension, the agency and the Advisory
Board shall mutually agree upon a schedule to be set forth in writing and made
available to the public.
   (H)   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, the Board of Commissioners shall not
permit any formal initiation of condemnation by local agencies while the
proposed condemnation is properly before the Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
NOTIFICATION
§ 151.110  RECORD NOTICE OF PROXIMITY TO VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Procedure for notification.
      (1)   When the county computerizes its County Land Records System, the
following requirements outlined in this section shall be implemented and
enforced. Upon certification of qualifying farmland and designation of real
property as a district, the title to that qualifying farmland and real
property, which is contained in the County Land Records System, shall be
changed to include a notice reasonably calculated to alert a person researching
the title of a particular tract that such tract is located within one-half
aerial mile of a Voluntary Agricultural District.
      (2)   The purpose of such notification is to inform current and potential
residents and property owners in and adjacent to a Voluntary Agricultural
District, that farming and agricultural activities may take place in this
district any time during the day or night.
      (3)   The activities may include, but are not limited to pesticide
spraying, manure spreading, machinery, and truck operations, burning, livestock
operations, logging, and other common farming and forestry activities.
   (B)   Notice sample. The following notice shall be made available to
everyone recording a deed or plat with the Register of Deeds.
 
NOTICE TO REAL ESTATE PURCHASERS IN BEAUFORT COUNTY.
BEAUFORT COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
Beaufort County has established agricultural districts to protect and preserve
agricultural lands and activities. These districts have been developed and
mapped by the county to inform all purchasers of real property within one-half
aerial mile of a Voluntary Agriculture District that certain agricultural
activities, including but not limited to the following: pesticide spraying,
manure spreading, machinery, and truck operations, burning, livestock
operations, logging, and other common farming and forestry activities may take
place in these districts any time during the day or night. Maps of the location
of voluntary agriculture districts can be obtained through the overlay system
provided to all county offices and the general public through internet access
by the Tax Assessor’s Office.
 
   (C)   Limit of liability. In no event shall the county or any of its
officers, employees, members of the Advisory Board, or agents be held liable in
damages for any misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance occurring in good
faith in connection with the duties or obligations imposed by this chapter.
   (D)   No cause of action. In no event shall any cause of action arise out of
the failure of a person researching the title of a particular tract to report
to any person the proximity of the tract to a qualifying farm or Voluntary
Agricultural District.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.111  SIGNAGE.
   Signs identifying approved agricultural districts shall be placed along the
rights-of-way of major roads that pass through or next to those districts.
There shall also be signage posted at the farm entrance of each qualifying
farm. Placement of signage shall be coordinated with the State Department of
Transportation. The costs of the signs are the responsibility of the landowner.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.112  MAPS.
   Maps identifying approved Voluntary Agricultural Districts can be obtained
through the overlay system provided to all county offices and the general
public through internet access by the Tax Assessor’s Office.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretations
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
   
152.14   Effect upon outstanding building permit
   
152.15   Effective date
Administration
   
152.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
152.31   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
152.32   Corrective procedures
   
152.33   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.45   General standards
   
152.46   Specific standards
   
152.47   Subdivisions, manufactured home parks, and major developments
   
152.48   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
152.49   Standards for floodplains with BFE but without established floodways
or non-encroachment areas
   
152.50   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
152.51   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Manufactured Housing, see
Ch. 150
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Legislature of the state has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, Pt. 6; G.S.
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Pts. 3 and 4; and G.S. Ch. 153A, Art. 6, Pt. 121, delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the county does ordain this
chapter as follows.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the county are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health,
and safety hazards; disruption of commerce and governmental services;
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief; and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damage.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, hedging, and all other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood-blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure which is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds, and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING BUILDING. An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and determinate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the flood
insurance study of the water surface elevations of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below-ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6).
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above- ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is pre-
FIRM.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAV MAP (FSFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by FEMA.
The flood insurance study report includes flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and
flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminates the risk of
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Ch. 130A-290.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the United States Department of Interior) or preliminary
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminary determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, patio
slab, or deck support immediately next to the building after completion of the
building. For Zone A and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The subfloor, top of slab, or grade of the lowest enclosed
area (including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR provided
that such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, theNational Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD),
as corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the
direction, and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after the
effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map for the area.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake,  river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance of such building. Within special flood hazard areas
designated as Zones A1-A30, AE, A, A99, AO, or AH, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the
top of the lowest floor.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation to which all structures
and other development located within the special flood hazard areas must be
elevated or flood-proofed, if non-residential. Within areas where base flood
elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE. In
areas where no BFE has been established, all structures and other development
must be elevated or flood-proofed, if non-residential, to two feet above the
highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include, protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance, or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing
federal financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RETROFITTING. Measures, such as flood-proofing, elevation, construction of
small levees, and other modifications, taken on an existing building or its
yard to protect it from flood damage.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Property used for the storage, collection, and/or recycling of
any type of equipment whatsoever, whether industrial or noncommercial, and
including but not limited to vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36).
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
152.07 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (including
a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings,
installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, foundations, or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above-ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on two separate
occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of
each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period whereby the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
152.30 through
152.33 and §§
152.45 through
152.51 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.06  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extraterritorial jurisdictions if applicable, of the
county and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body
agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the state and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) dated
July 7, 2014 for the county and associated Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM) panels, including any digital data developed as part of the Flood
Insurance Study, which are adopted by reference and declared a part of this
chapter. Future revisions to the FIS and DFIRM panels that do not change flood
hazard data within the jurisdictional authority of the county are also adopted
by reference and declared a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The special flood hazard areas also include those defined through
standard engineering analysis for private developments or by governmental
agencies, but which have not yet been incorporated in the FIRM. This includes,
but is not submitted to, detailed flood data:
      (1)   Generated as a requirement of §§
152.30(B)(11) and (B)(12);
      (2)   Preliminary FIRMs where more stringent than the effective FIRM; or
      (3)   Post-disaster flood recovery maps.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2014)
§ 152.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
152.07.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.11  INTERPRETATIONS.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Actual flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the county or by any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.13  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted February 3, 1987,
as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced.
   (B)   The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or
proceeding instituted or pending.
   (C)   All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of Beaufort
County enacted on February 3, 1987, as amended, which are not re-enacted herein
are repealed.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.14  EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMIT.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to passage of this
chapter or any revision thereto, construction, or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.15  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.30  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Chief Building Inspector, hereinafter referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within flood-prone areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (i.e.,
wetlands, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, and the
like) may be required;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management and the State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments within floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
152.49 are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) of all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.31(C);
      (7)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
flood-proofed, in accordance with §
152.31(C);
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities, in accordance with §
152.31(C);
      (9)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
152.31(C) and
152.46(B);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this subchapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
152.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data and/or non-encroachment area data available from
a federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
152.49, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
152.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data, and/or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. A copy of the letter of map amendment issued from FEMA will be
maintained by the Floodplain Administrator in the floodplain development permit
file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter in on any
premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for
the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revocation of floodplain development permits as required. The
Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure
to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements
or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of any applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter in on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action; and/or
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.32.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.31  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plans and application requirements. Application for a floodplain
development permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms
furnished by him or her prior to any development activities proposed to be
located within flood-prone areas. The following items/information may be
required by the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain development
permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, the location of
utility systems, proposed grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage
areas, drainage facilities, and other proposed development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07 or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
152.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE), where provided, as set forth in
§§
152.07,
152.30 (B)(11) and (B)(12), or §§
152.46(E),
152.47, and
152.48;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   Preparation of the plot plan by or under the direct supervision
of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by the
same.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed; and/or
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood-proofed.
      (3)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate and back-up plans
from a registered professional engineer or architect certifying that the non-
residential flood-proofed development will meet the flood-proofing criteria in
§§
152.46(B) and
152.47(B);
      (4)   A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met.
These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid
foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation on
columns/piers); and/or
         (b)   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used in floodplains,
details of sufficient openings to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters in accordance with §
152.46(D).
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed space below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (6)   Copy of all other local, state, and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (i.e., wetlands, erosion and
sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, and the like);
      (7)   If a floodplain development permit is issued for placement of
recreational vehicles and/or temporary structures, documentation to ensure §
152.46(F) and (G) are met; and
      (8)   If a watercourse is proposed to be altered and/or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation, an
engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream, and a map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of
the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Floodplain development permit data requirements. The following
information shall be provided at a minimum on the floodplain development permit
to ensure compliance with this chapter:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit issuance;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
152.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   State that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway or
non-encroachment area of any watercourse, if applicable;
      (7)   State limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable),
(i.e., parking, building access, and limited storage only);
      (8)   If in an A, AO, AE, or A1-30 Zone, specify the minimum foundation
opening requirements; and
      (9)   State limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable),
(i.e., parking, building access, and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   A benchmark must be established on the project site locating the
regulatory flood protection elevation. A certified letter outlining the
elevation details in relation to mean sea level of this benchmark must be
submitted to the Floodplain Administrator prior to permit issuance. Said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or flood-
proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after construction is
completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of final as-built construction of the elevation or flood-proofed
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities. Said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by the same.
When flood- proofing is utilized, said certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make said corrections required shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within an A, AO, AE, or A1-30 Zone
and the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineered
foundation certification is required per §
152.46(C).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation, an engineering report on
the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the
watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and downstream,
and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   The following structures, if located within A, AO, AE, or A1-30
Zones, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing certification requirements
specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.46(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.46(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
152.46(H).
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.32  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
his or her property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue such
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building, or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed in division (B) above, the Floodplain Administrator shall
find that the building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or
she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy
the violation within a specified time period, not less than 60 days. Where the
Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.33  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners as established by the county, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the factors in division (D) above
shall be submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors in division (D) above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessity, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on, or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced reference level elevation. Such notification shall
be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the state upon request.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.45  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. These include but are not limited to HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (i.e., washers, dryers, refrigerator,
and the like), hot water heaters, and/or electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nonconforming structures or other development may not be enlarged,
replaced, or rebuilt unless such enlargement or reconstruction accomplished is
in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Provided, however, nothing
in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or replacement of a
building or structure existing on the effective date of this chapter and
located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment area, or
stream setback, provided that the bulk of the building or structure below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback is not increased and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in special flood hazard areas. A structure or tank for chemical or
fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water
treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special
flood hazard area only if the structure or tank is either elevated or flood-
proofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation and certified
according to §
152.31(C).
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.46  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
152.07 or
152.30(B)(11) and (B)(12), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation. Structures located in A, AO, AE, and A1-
30 Zones may be flood-proofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in
lieu of elevation, provided that all areas of the structure below the required
flood protection elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
official as set forth in §
152.31(C).
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement in
accordance with the State Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile Homes, 1995
Edition, and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance,
pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15, or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength.
When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      (3)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with
division (D) below.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas that are below the
regulatory flood protection elevation shall not be designed to be used for
human habitation, but shall be designed to be used only for parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in
connection with the premises, be constructed entirely of flood resistant
materials below the regulatory flood protection level in A, AO, AE, and A1-30
Zones, and meet the following design criteria.
      (1)   Measures for complying with this requirement shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the foundation
must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of each enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings on exterior walls to allow floodwater to directly enter;
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other opening
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Foundation enclosures:
            1.   Vinyl or sheet metal skirting is not considered an enclosure
for regulatory and flood insurance rating purposes. Therefore, such skirting
does not require hydrostatic openings as outlined above; or
            2.   Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status,
is considered an enclosure and requires hydrostatic openings as outlined above
to comply with this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (b)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms, except to enclose storage area.
   (E)   Additions or improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures whereas the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
         (a)   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures whereas the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
         (a)   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Where a fire wall or independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreation vehicles placed on sites within a
special flood hazard area shall either:
      (1)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)    Meet all the requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements of §§
152.31,
152.45, and
152.46(C).
   (G)   Temporary structures. Prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit for a temporary structure, the following requirements must
be met:
      (1)   Applicants must submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for
the removal of such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane or flash flood
warning notification. The plan must include the following information:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a
trucking company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed;
and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (2)   The above information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval.
   (H)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including work, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas).
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
152.45(A).
      (5)   All service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
shall be installed in accordance with §
152.45(D).
      (6)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with
division (D)(1) above.
      (7)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
does not require an elevation or flood-proofing certificate. Elevation or
flood-proofing certifications are required for all other accessory structures
in accordance with §
152.31(C).
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.47  SUBDIVISIONS, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS, AND MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS.
   All subdivision, manufactured home parks, and major development proposals
located within special flood hazard areas shall:
   (A)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
   (C)   Have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
and
   (D)   Have base flood elevation (BFE) data provided if development is
greater than the lesser of five or 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such base
flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference per §
152.07 to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.48  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided, the
following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from the top of bank or five times the width of the stream
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If §
152.47(A) is satisfied and base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from
other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such
areas shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and
shall be elevated or flood-proofed in accordance with elevations established in
accordance with §
152.30(B)(11) and (B)(12). When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not
available from a federal, state, or other source, the reference level,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.49  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS
OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a special
flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS, no encroachments, including fill,
new construction, substantial improvements, or other development, shall be
permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.50  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07 are areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas. The
floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and
potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply to all development within such
areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood. Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit.
      (2)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.46(C); and
         (b)   The non-encroachment standards of division (A) above are met.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.51  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and determinate.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply within such areas.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the depth number
specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including
basement, shall be elevated at least to the regulatory flood protection
elevation as defined for the special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been
established.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall have the option to, in lieu of elevation, be
completely flood-proofed together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities to or above that level so that any space below that level is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as per §§
152.31(C) and 152.46(B).
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the county taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2003)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Authority
   
153.04   Definitions
   
153.05   Jurisdiction
   
153.06   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
153.07   Compliance with other regulatory plans
   
153.08   Exclusion
   
153.09   Administrator
   
153.10   Fees
   
153.11   General procedure for plat approval
   
153.12   Statement by owner
   
153.13   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
153.14   Variances
   
153.15   Amendments
   
153.16   Effective date and adoption
Procedure for Review and Approval of Subdivision Plats
   
153.30   Plat shall be required on any subdivision
   
153.31   Approval prerequisite to plat recordation
   
153.32   Special subdivision procedure
   
153.33   Minor subdivision procedure
   
153.34   Major subdivision procedure
Required Improvements and Minimum Standards of Design
   
153.45   General
   
153.46   Solid waste sites
   
153.47   Name duplication
   
153.48   Subdivision design
   
153.49   Streets
   
153.50   Utilities
   
153.51   Other requirements
   
153.52   Planned unit development
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Regulations
of Beaufort County, North Carolina”, and may be referred to as the “subdivision
regulations” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to support and guide the proper subdivision
of land within the jurisdiction of the county in order to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the county. This chapter
is designed to promote the orderly development of the county, the coordination
of streets and highways within proposed subdivisions with existing or planned
streets and highways with other public facilities, the dedication or
reservation of right-of-way or easements for street and utility purposes, and
the distribution of population and traffic, which shall avoid congestion and
overcrowding and which will create conditions essential to public health,
safety, and the general welfare.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.03  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S.
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Pt. 2.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right to cross property.
   ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside primarily for
utility service access at the backside of properties, otherwise abutting a
street.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.The line on the front, rear, and sides of a lot that
delineates the area within which a structure may be built and maintained.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Land designated by the plat for the use, benefit, and
enjoyment of all residents, and the developer or homeowners shall not place
age, race, sex, or unreasonable economic restrictions upon the use of said open
space.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street with one end open to traffic, and the other end of
which is permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS. A continuous (through) lot of the same depth as the
width of a block and which is accessible from both of the streets upon which it
fronts.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use by the public, a
corporation, or person(s) of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION. A community association, other than a condominium
association, which is organized in a development in which individual owners
share common interests in open space or facilities. The ASSOCIATION usually
holds title to certain common property, manages and maintains the common
property, and enforces certain covenants and restrictions.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of the county prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOTS. A parcel of land under single ownership occupied or capable of being
occupied by a principal building together with its accessory buildings,
including the open space required under the terms of this chapter.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the County
Commissioners, or municipalities in the county, as a guide for the development
of the county, consisting of maps, charts, and/or texts.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A contiguous area to be planned and developed as a
single entity containing one or more residential clusters or planned unit
developments and one or more public, quasi-public, commercial, or industrial
areas in such ranges or ratios of non-residential uses to residential uses as
shall be specified.
   PLANNING BOARD. The body created by the Board of County Commissioners,
pursuant to G.S. § 153A-321, to act as a planning agency for the Commissioners
on planning matters within the county.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided, or any existing parcel.
   PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. A single system of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal owned and operated by a sanitary district, a
metropolitan sewage district, a water and sewer authority, a county or
municipality, or a public utility.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the public of piped water
for human consumption, if such a system has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves at least 25 year-round residents, pursuant to G.S. § 130A-313
(10).
   RESTRICTED COVENANT. A restriction on the use of land usually set forth in
the deed. The RESTRICTIVE COVENANT usually runs with the land and is binding
upon subsequent owners of the property.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous lot of the same depth as the width of a
block, accessible from only the minor of the two streets upon which it fronts.
   SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM. A ground absorption sewage treatment and disposal system
consisting of a septic tank and a nitrification field, necessary pipe lines,
conduits, pump stations, and other appurtenances required for proper
collection, distribution, treatment, disposal, operation, and performance, or
any other system approved by the Health Department.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any alternative system, other than a septic tank
system, which is approved by the Health Department.
   SHALL. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   SPOIL. Earth, rock, or other materials excavated or dredged.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which collects traffic from local streets and
connects with minor and major arterials.
   STREET, HALF. A street measured from the centerline to either side of the
right-of-way.
   STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL. A street with access control, channelized
intersections, restricted parking, and which collects and distributes traffic
to and from minor arterials.
   STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL. A street with signals at important intersections and
stop signs on the side streets, and which collects and distributes traffic to
and from collector streets.
   STREET, PRIVATE.A dedicated or undedicated private right-of-way, which
affords access to abutting properties and requires a subdivision streets
disclosure statement in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which affords
the principal means of access to abutting properties for vehicular traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any persons, firm, or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and includes all divisions of land
involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
provided, however, that the following is not included within this definition
and is not subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this part, except lot
size restrictions:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased and
the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the county as shown
by the regulations prescribed by this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for widening
or opening streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership, the entire area of
which is not greater than two acres, into not more than three lots, if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved, and if the resultant lots are equal
to or exceed the standards of the county, as shown by the subdivision
regulations contained in this chapter;
      (5)   The gift by a property owner of a single lot to his or her child,
grandchild, brother, sister, parent, or grandparent or to each of his or her
children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, parents, or grandparents where no
new road is involved, provided that only one such gift per child, grandchild,
brother, sister, parent, or grandparent be made during a ten-year period and
where the resultant lot is equal to or exceeds the standards of the county as
shown in these subdivision regulations;
      (6)   The division of property belonging to the heirs of a single
individual when such property is divided only for the settlement of the estate
and not for sale as building sites; and
      (7)   Cemeteries.
   SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons responsible for the
administration of this chapter, and appointed in §
153.09.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision or
special subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of land that does not involve any of the
following:
      (1)   The creation of three or fewer lots or more than ten lots;
      (2)   A planned unit development;
      (3)   Any new street; or
      (4)   The extension of any off-tract improvements, except for such
improvements as electrical, cable, and the like.
   SUBDIVISION, SPECIAL. A subdivision where three or fewer lots will result
after the subdivision is complete. Access is provided by an access easement
connecting to an existing dedicated public or private street unless the
proposed lot(s) front or abut an existing dedicated public or private street.
   VARIANCE. A modification or alteration of any of the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.05  JURISDICTION.
   The regulations contained herein shall govern each and every subdivision of
land within the county as provided by G.S. Ch. 153A, Art. 18, except those
lands lying within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of any municipality,
unless such municipality shall have by resolution, formally requested the
county to enforce these regulations within the city’s area of jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.06  PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, each individual subdivision plat
of land within the county’s jurisdiction shall be approved by the County
Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.07  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATORY PLANS.
   Proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of
all officially adopted plans, ordinances, and regulations in effect within the
county.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.08  EXCLUSION.
   The county chooses to exclude a voluntary partition of land made for the
purpose of dividing up the estate of a decedent among his or her heirs, whether
the decedent died testate or intestate.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.09  ADMINISTRATOR.
   The holder of the Office of Secretary to the Planning Board is hereby
appointed to serve as Subdivision Administrator, as the agent of the County
Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.10  FEES.
   Fees established in accordance with this section shall be paid upon
submission of signed application. No requests for approval will be considered
until the applicable fee is paid.
 
Type              Preliminary Fee Final Fee
                  Greater than 10 lots - new right-of-way - extension of water
Major subdivision $50             $50
                  Greater than 50 lots
                  $50             $100
                  4 to 10 lots in size - no new right-of-way created - no
Minor subdivision extension of water and/or sewer will be required
                  $25             $50
 
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.11  GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, no subdivision plat of land
within the county’s jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it has been
submitted to and approved by the County Planning Board, as set forth in this
chapter, and until this approval appears on the face of the plat.
   (B)   The Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision
of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the county that has not
been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the Clerk of the
Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the recording would
be in conflict with this section.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Planning
Board may approve minor modifications to subdivisions existing prior to the
effective date of this chapter (or prior to the date this chapter was adopted
as to additional jurisdictional areas) without necessity of public hearing or
submission of sketch plans or preliminary plats. Such approval may be granted
without formal procedural review by other agencies and without compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, if the Planning Board determines the following:
      (1)   There is no increase in the number of lots proposed compared to the
number of existing lots; and
      (2)   There are no significant negative impacts relating to the proposed
alteration over and above impacts likely to be associated with the utilization
of the pre-existing lots.
   (D)   The Office of Register of Deeds of the county shall be authorized to
record a plat upon which is designated the following, under signature of the
Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of the County Planning Board:
      “This plat is a minor modification of a subdivision existing prior to the
adoption of the Subdivision Regulations for the property depicted hereon. In
accordance with Section 501 of Article V of the Beaufort County Subdivision
Regulations, this plat may be recorded.”
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.12  STATEMENT BY OWNER.
   The owner of land shown on a subdivision plat submitted for recording, or
his or her authorized agent, shall sign a statement on the plat stating whether
or not any land shown thereon is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction
of the county.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.13  EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-333, the approval of a plat does not constitute or
effect the acceptance by the county or the public of the dedication of any
street or other ground, public utility line, or other public facility shown on
the plat and shall not be construed to do so.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.14  VARIANCES.
   (A)   The County Planning Board may authorize a variance from these
regulations for major and minor plats when, in its opinion, undue hardship may
result from strict compliance. In granting any variance, the Board shall make
the findings required below, taking into account the nature of the proposed
subdivision, the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to
reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the
proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   The following guidelines shall be considered by the Planning Board in
the granting of a variance:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner;
      (3)   The circumstances giving rise to the need for the variance are
peculiar to the parcel and are not generally characteristic of other parcels in
the jurisdiction of this chapter; and
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in
which said property is situated.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.15  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners may from time-to-time amend the
terms of this chapter but no amendment shall become effective unless it has
been proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review
and recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 45 days from the time the
proposed amendment is submitted to it within which to submit its report. If the
Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified time, it shall be
deemed to have recommended approval of the amendment.
   (B)   No amendment shall be adopted by the governing body until it has held
a public hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once a week for two
successive calendar weeks prior to the hearing.
   (C)   The initial notice shall be published the first time not less than ten
days nor more than 25 days before the date fixed for the hearing. In computing
such period, the day of publication is not to be included, but the day of the
hearing shall be included.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.16  EFFECTIVE DATE AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after
October 16, 2000. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
division of land resulting in lots described in a deed or shown on a plat
properly recorded in the Office of the County Register of Deeds prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   Amended by the Board of County Commissioners on January 8, 2002.
   (B)   Originally adopted by the Board of Commissioners on July 3, 2000.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 153.30  PLAT SHALL BE REQUIRED ON ANY SUBDIVISION.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-330, a final plat shall be prepared, approved, and
recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any subdivision of
land takes place in the county.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.31  APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-331, no final plat of a subdivision within the
jurisdiction of the county as established in §
153.05, shall be recorded by the Register of Deeds of the county until it has
been approved by the Subdivision Administrator or by the County Planning Board
as provided herein. To secure such approval of a final plat, the subdivider
shall follow the procedures established in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.32  SPECIAL SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   In an effort to simplify and condense the review process for small
subdivisions of land that will have little or no impact on the county
development process, special subdivisions of land shall comply with the
following procedures and only require that a final plat be submitted for
approval.
   (A)   To qualify as a special subdivision, the subdivision must be three or
fewer lots that will result after the subdivision is complete. Access is
provided by an access easement connecting to an existing dedicated public or
private street unless the proposed lot(s) front or abut an existing dedicated
public or private street.
   (B)   The final plat for a special subdivision shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor licensed and registered to practice in the state, and
drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch or larger or otherwise agreed upon
scale, on a sheet eight by 14 inches and shall have a one-half inch border on
each side, suitable for recording in the Register of Deeds Office and in
conformance with G.S. § 47-30.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.33  MINOR SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   To qualify as a minor subdivision, the subdivision must meet all of
the following:
      (1)   No new public or private streets or other rights-of-way shall be
created;
      (2)   No extension of water and sewer will be required; or
      (3)   No less than four lots and no greater than ten lots.
   (B)   Prior to submitting a final plat, the subdivider, or his or her agent,
is encouraged to discuss his or her subdivision with the Subdivision
Administrator to ensure that the proposed subdivision qualifies as a minor
subdivision and that the subdivider understands the requirements and procedures
necessary to gain approval of the subdivision.
   (C)   The final plat for a minor subdivision shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor licensed and registered to practice in the state, and
drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch or larger or otherwise agreed upon
scale, on a sheet 18 by 24 inches and shall have a one-half inch border on each
side, suitable for recording in the Register of Deeds Office and in conformance
with G.S. § 47-30.
   (D)   The subdivider shall submit six paper print copies and one final plat
suitable for reproduction to the Subdivision Administrator.
   (E)   The final plat for a minor subdivision shall show:
      (1)   The name of the subdivision, if applicable;
      (2)   The lines and names of all streets and roads;
      (3)   Lot lines and lot numbers;
      (4)   Minimum building setback lines;
      (5)   All reservation and easements;
      (6)   All dimensions should be to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot and
angles to the nearest minute;
      (7)   Accurate location and description of all monuments and stakes;
      (8)   The names and location of adjoining subdivisions, and streets, and
the location and ownership of adjoining property;
      (9)   Title, date, name, and location of subdivision, graphic scale, and
magnetic north point;
      (10)   Name of owner and registered surveyor or professional engineer;
      (11)   Sketch vicinity map showing relationship between subdivision and
surrounding area;
      (12)   The ratio of precisions as calculated by latitudes and departures,
before any adjustments, must be shown;
      (13)   Other information considered to be pertinent to review the final
plat; and/or
      (14)   The following certificates, where applicable, shall be placed on
the final plat.
 
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon which was conveyed to me (us) by deed recorded in Book ____,
Page___, and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision as required by
this ordinance, establish the minimum building lines, and dedicate all drainage
ways and other open spaces to public or private use as noted. Further, I (we)
certify that the land as shown hereon is within the subdivision regulation
jurisdiction of Beaufort County.
 
   ____________________________
   Owner(s)
 
   ____________________________
      Date(s)
 
I, ______________, certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from
(an actual survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in
Book____, Page____, and the like) (other); that the boundaries not surveyed are
shown as broken lines plotted from information found in Book____, Page___, that
this plat was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended.
Witness my original signature, registration number, and seal this____day of
______A.D., 20__.
   ____________________________
   Surveyor
 
   ____________________________
   Registration Number
 
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision entitled________________ consists
of___lots, of which____are specified as building lots served by individual
septic tank systems. Each building lot was provided with proper application,
evaluation, and improvements permit for an individual septic tank system
pursuant to the general statutes of North Carolina and shall be valid for a
period prescribed by current rules and subject to the conditions set forth on
the improvements permit. This certification does not constitute “Blanket
Approval” of all lots in the subdivision.
 
   ____________________________
   Beaufort County Health Director
   or designee who shall be an authorized agent or the state
   ____________________________
   Date
 
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with Subdivision Regulations of Beaufort County, with all variances
noted in the minutes of the Beaufort County Planning Board, that all easements,
shown hereon, are accepted by Beaufort County, subject to approval by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation, which assumes no responsibility to open
or maintain the same, and that this map has been approved for recording in the
Office of the Register of Deeds.
 
   ____________________________
   Subdivision Administrator
 
   ____________________________
   Date
 
As owner of____Subdivision, I certify that lot(s) ____are not intended for
development at this time. If these are developed, they will be subject to all
applicable wastewater regulations in effect at that time.
 
   ____________________________
   Owner(s)
 
   ____________________________
   Date
 
I,________, Registered or Professional Land Surveyor, certify to one or more of
the following:
 
a. That the survey creates a subdivision of land within the area of a county or
municipality that has an ordinance that regulates parcels of land;
 
b. That the survey is of an existing parcel of land;
 
c. That the survey is of another category, such as recombination of existing
parcels, a court-ordered survey, or exception to the definition of subdivision;
 
d. That the information to the surveyor is such that the survey is unable to
make a determination to the best of his or her professional ability as to
provisions contained in (a) through (c) above.
 
   ____________________________
   Registered or Professional Land Surveyor
 
   (F)   Within 45 days of submission, the final plat shall be reviewed by the
Subdivision Administrator. However, the Subdivision Administrator may require
any preliminary minor plat to be reviewed by the Planning Board under §
153.34 warranted by unusual impacts or conditions.
   (G)   If the final plat is in compliance with this chapter, the Subdivision
Administrator shall approve the final plat.
      (1)   Approval of the final plat is authorization for the plat to be
filed with the Register of Deeds and no changes shall be made to the plat prior
to its recordation. If changes are made, the plat must have the approval of the
Subdivision Administrator.
      (2)   This approval shall be noted on the original and two copies of the
final plat. The original shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy shall be
transmitted to the Environmental Health Section of the County Health
Department, and one copy shall be retained for the permanent files of the
Planning Board.
      (3)   No final plat shall be approved until it meets the requirements set
forth, all required fees have been paid, and certificates required by this
chapter to appear on the final plat have been properly filled out, dated, and
signed.
      (4)   If the final plat is not in compliance with these regulations, the
reasons for disapproval and conditions to be met before the Subdivision
Administrator will approve the final plat shall be noted on two copies of the
proposed final plat. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and one copy
shall be retained by the Subdivision Administrator.
   (H)   The approval of a final plat pursuant to regulations adopted under
this subchapter shall not be deemed to constitute or affect the acceptance by
the county or the public of the dedication of any street or other ground,
public utility line, or other public facility shown on the plat, for the
purpose of maintenance.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.34  MAJOR SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Sketch design plan.
      (1)   Prior to submitting a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
prepare and submit to the Subdivision Administrator, a sketch design plan of
the proposed subdivision. At this meeting, the subdivider should explain his or
her plan, answer questions about it, and advise the Subdivision Administrator
of any variations from these subdivision regulations. This procedure does not
require an application or a fee.
      (2)   The sketch design plan should be drawn at a scale of approximately
one inch to 100 feet or otherwise agreed upon scale and should show:
         (a)   Street rights-of-way, public or private, including street names;
         (b)   Other rights-of-way and easements;
         (c)   Lot lines, watercourses, building, and the like;
         (d)   Sites, if any, for schools, churches, parks, and the like;
         (e)   Site data:
            1.   Acreage in tract;
            2.   Approximate acreage for public use, including streets; and
            3.   Number of lots proposed.
         (f)   Sketch vicinity map showing relationship between subdivision and
surrounding area.
   (B)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit 12 copies of the preliminary plat and
any supplementary material to the Subdivision Administrator at least 21 days
prior to the regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting at which the plat is to
be considered by the Planning Board.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be at a scale of 100 feet to one inch or
larger or otherwise agreed upon scale. The preliminary plat will show the
following:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision;
         (b)   The location of existing and platted property lines, streets,
open ditch or watercourses, railroads, transmission lines, sewers, bridges,
culverts, and drainpipes, and approximate location of water mains, city and
county lines (if adjoining), and any public utility easements;
         (c)   Boundaries of tract shown with bearings and distances;
         (d)   Names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions;
         (e)   Land use plan classification, if any, both on the land to be
subdivided, and on adjoining land;
         (f)   Proposed streets, public or private, street names, rights-of-
way, and pavement widths;
         (g)   Other proposed rights-of-way or easements, locations, widths,
and purposes;
         (h)   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, and approximate
dimensions. Lot numbers should be in sequence;
         (I)   Proposed minimum building setback lines;
         (j)   Proposed parks, school sites, other public open spaces, if any;
         (k)   Title, date, north point, and graphic scale;
         (l)   Name of owner, registered land surveyor, or engineer, if
applicable;
         (m)   Site data:
            1.   Acreage in total tract;
            2.   Acreage in each land usage;
            3.   Average lot size;
            4.   Total number of lots; and
            5.   Lineal feet in streets.
         (n)   Sketch vicinity map showing relationship between a subdivision
and the surrounding area.
      (3)   The preliminary plat shall be checked against the design standards
and plat requirements of these regulations by the County Planning Board. The
Subdivision Administrator shall provide the following agencies an opportunity
to review and make recommendations concerning the proposed subdivision plat
before approval is given:
         (a)   The District Engineer of the State Department of Transportation
as to proposed streets, highways, and drainage system;
         (b)   The County Health Director as to proposed water and sewerage
systems; and
         (c)   Such other agencies and officials as the Planning Board may deem
necessary or desirable.
      (4)   (a)   The subdivider, developer, or his or her agent, shall attend
the Planning Board meeting at which his or her preliminary plat is to be
considered by the County Planning Board.
         (b)   The Planning Board shall discuss with the subdivider, developer,
or his or her agent, changes deemed advisable, if any, and the kind and extent
of improvements to be made by him or her.
      (5)   The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the preliminary
plat.
         (a)   Approval of the preliminary plat is authorized for the
subdivider to proceed with the construction of improvements in preparation for
submission of the final plat.
         (b)   If the Planning Board should disapprove the preliminary plat,
the reasons for such action shall be stated and recommendations made on the
basis of which the proposed subdivision would be approved.
         (c)   Failure on the part of the Planning Board to act within 60 days
after the preliminary plat is first considered at a regular meeting of the
Planning Board shall be deemed approved.
      (6)   When a subdivision is to be developed in stages, the preliminary
plat shall be submitted for the entire development. A final plat shall be
submitted for each stage. The first final plat shall be submitted within 12
months after approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, the preliminary plat
shall become null and void, unless an extension of time is applied for and
granted by the Planning Board.
   (C)   Final plat.
      (1)   After the improvements shown on the approved preliminary plat have
been installed, or guaranteed, for the whole or portion of a subdivision, the
applicant shall submit a final plat of the area covered by such improvements.
The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor or professional engineer
registered to practice in the state, and such registration shall be notarized
on the final plat. All final plats to be recorded by the County Register of
Deeds shall be probated and shall conform to the provisions for plats,
subdivisions, and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 as amended,
and the Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in the state. No changes shall
be made in the approved final plat without the review and approval of the
Planning Board. Minor changes must be approved by the Subdivision
Administrator. Major changes, as deemed by the Subdivision Administrator shall
be approved by the Planning Board.
      (2)   Twenty-one days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the Planning Board, the subdivider shall submit to the Subdivision
Administrator 12 paper print copies and one final plat suitable for
reproduction. The final plat shall be accompanied by a check made payable to
the county to cover costs associated with plat review and filing costs.
      (3)   The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch or
larger or an agreed upon scale, on a sheet 18 by 24 inches. The final plat
shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved and shall
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat that the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time.
      (4)   The final plat will show:
         (a)   The name of the subdivision;
         (b)   The location of existing and platted property lines, streets,
open ditch or watercourses, railroads, transmission lines, sewers, bridges,
culverts, and drainpipes, and approximate location of water mains, city and
county lines (if adjoining), and any public utility easements;
         (c)   The lines and names of all streets and roads;
         (d)   Minimum building setback lines;
         (e)   Floodplains (including FIRM map number and panel);
         (f)   All reservations, easements, alleys, and any areas to be
dedicated to public use or sites other than for residential use with notes
stating their purpose and any limitations;
         (g)   Sufficient data to determine readily and to reproduce on the
ground, the location, bearing, and length of every street line, whether curved
or straight, and including suitable north reference. This should include the
radius, center angle, and curved property lines that are not the boundary of
curved streets;
         (h)   All dimensions should be to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot
and angles to the nearest minute;
         (i)   Accurate location and description of all monuments and stakes;
         (j)   The names and locations of adjoining subdivisions, and streets,
and the location and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided property;
         (k)   Title, date, name, and location of subdivision, and graphic
scale;
         (l)   The ratio of precision as calculated by latitudes and departures
before any adjustments, must be shown;
         (m)   Name of owner and of registered land surveyor;
         (n)   Sketch vicinity map showing relationship between subdivision and
surrounding area; and
         (o)   The following certificates, where applicable, shall be placed on
the final plat.
 
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon which was conveyed to me (us) by deed recorded in Book ___,
Page ___ , and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision as required by
this ordinance, establish the minimum building lines, and dedicate all streets,
alleys, walks, parks, drainage ways, and other open spaces to public or private
use as noted. Further, I (we) certify that the land as shown hereon is within
the subdivision regulations jurisdiction of Beaufort County.
   _____________________
   Owner(s)
 
   _____________________
   Date
 
I______, certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book___,
Page___, (and the like) (other); that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as
broken lines plotted from information found in Book___, Page____, that this
plat was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my
original signature, registration number, and seal this___day of____, A.D.,
20__.
 
   _____________________
   Surveyor
 
   _____________________
   Registration Number
 
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision entitled _______________ consists
of___lots, of which ___are specified as building lots served by individual
septic tank systems. Each building lot was provided with proper application,
evaluation, and improvements permit for an individual septic tank system
pursuant to the general statutes of North Carolina and shall be valid for a
period prescribed by current rules and subject to the conditions set forth on
the improvements permit. This certification does not constitute “Blanket
Approval” of all lots in the subdivision.
   _____________________
   Beaufort County Health Director or
   designee who shall be an authorized agent of the state
 
   __________________________________________
   Date
 
Certification that private streets and roads meet the construction standards of
this ordinance, signed by the subdivider’s engineer or surveyor.
 
Public subdivision streets and roads Construction Standards Certification
signed by the District Highway Engineer.
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision depicted hereon has been granted final
approval pursuant to the Beaufort County Subdivision Regulations.
 
   _____________________
   Chairperson, Beaufort County Planning Board
 
   _____________________
   Date
 
I hereby certify that streets, utilities, and other improvements have been
installed in an acceptable manner and according to County specifications in the
subdivision entitled__________, or that a security bond or irrevocable letter
of credit in the amount of $____ has been posted with Beaufort County to ensure
the installation thereof.
 
   _____________________
   County Manager
 
   _____________________
   Date
 
As owner of_____Subdivision, I certify that lot(s)____are not intended for
development at this time. If these are developed they will be subject to all
applicable wastewater regulations in effect at that time.
 
   _____________________
   Owner(s)
 
   _____________________
   Date
 
 
I certify that the____________subdivision, has requested the City/Town of
______ to accept wastewater for___lots in the subdivision. The City/Town
of______has adequate capacity and agrees to accept wastewater from this
subdivision.
 
   _____________________
   Mayor or Authorized
   Representative
 
   _____________________
   Date
 
The______ subdivision has acquired a permit to install privately operated
wastewater system for the _____ lots proposed for this subdivision. I have
reviewed the plans for this wastewater system and certify that it is adequate
for the proposed subdivision.
 
   _____________________
   Registered Professional Engineer
 
   _____________________
   Date
 
I, __________ Registered or Professional Land Surveyor, certify to one or more of
the following:
 
a.   That the survey creates a subdivision of land within the area of a county or
municipality that has an ordinance that regulates parcels of land;
 
b.   That the survey is of an existing parcel of land;
 
c.   That the survey is of another category, such as recombination of existing
parcels, a court-ordered survey, or exception to the definition of subdivision;
or
 
d.   That the information to the surveyor is such that the surveyor is unable to
make a determination to the best of his or her professional ability as to
provisions contained in (a) through (c) above.
 
   ____________________________
   Registered or Professional Land Surveyor
 
 
      (5)   In order for the Planning Board to approve the final plat, all of
the above certificates with the exception of 20,f., must be properly signed and
dated to the satisfaction of the Planning Board.
      (6)   The subdivider, developer, or his or her agent, shall attend the
Planning Board meeting at which his or her final plat is to be considered to
answer any questions the Planning Board may have.
      (7)   Within 45 days of submission, the final plat shall be reviewed by
the Planning Board for compliance with the approved preliminary plat. The
Planning Board may appoint an engineer or surveyor to check the final plat
against the subdivision’s actual layout for correctness, charging the costs to
the subdivider if the plat is found to be in error.
      (8)   If the final plat is in compliance with this chapter, or the
Planning Board approves the changes made from the approved preliminary plat,
the Planning Board shall approve the final plat. This approval shall be noted
on the original and two copies of the final plat. The original shall be
returned to the subdivider. One copy shall be transmitted to the County Health
Department and one copy shall be retained for the permanent files of the
Planning Board. The approval is authority for the subdivider to record the
subdivision plat and to begin the sale of lots.
      (9)   No final plat shall be approved until all improvements are
installed or meet the requirements set forth in division (C)(11) below and all
required fees have been paid, and certificates required by this chapter to
appear on the final plat have been properly filled out and signed.
      (10)   If the final plat is not in compliance with these regulations, the
reasons for disapproval and conditions to be met before the Planning Board will
approve the final plat shall be noted on two copies of the proposed final plat.
One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and one copy shall be retained for
the Planning Board’s records. The subdivider will be given six months to submit
a revised final plat. If the revised final plat is not received by the Planning
Board within six months, the approved preliminary plat shall become null and
void.
      (11)   Where the required improvements have not been completed prior to
the submission of the final plat, the Planning Board, subject to the approval
of the County Manager, may accept from the subdivider a bond with surety or
other guarantees satisfactory to the county in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of the installation of the required improvements, whereby improvements may
be made and utilities installed without cost to the county in the event of
default by the subdivider. One of the methods described in division (D) below
may be used by the subdivider to guarantee the installation of the required
improvements.
      (12)   The approval of a final plat pursuant to regulations adopted under
this subchapter shall not be deemed to constitute or affect the acceptance by
the county or the public of the dedication of any street or other ground,
public utility line, or other public facility shown on the plat.
      (13)   Final plats not recorded within one year of approval shall become
null and void.
   (D)   Improvement guarantees.
      (1)   Agreement and security required. In lieu of requiring the
completion, installation, and dedication of all improvements prior to final
plat approval and prior to the recording of an approved final plat, the county
may enter into an agreement with the subdivider whereby the subdivider shall
agree to complete all required improvements. Once the agreement is signed by
both parties and the security required herein is provided, the final plat may
be approved by the Planning Board, if all other requirements of this chapter
are met. To secure this agreement, the subdivider shall provide, subject to the
approval of the County Manager, either one, or a combination of the following
guarantees not exceeding one and one-quarter times the entire cost as provided
herein.
         (a)   Surety performance bonds. The subdivider shall obtain a
performance bond(s) from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in
the state. The bonds shall be payable to the county and shall be in an amount
equal to one and one-quarter times the entire cost, as estimated by the
subdivider and approved by the County Manager, of installing all required
improvements. The duration of the bond(s) shall be until such time as the
improvements are approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
         (b)   Cash or equivalent security. The subdivider shall deposit cash,
an irrevocable letter of credit, or other instrument readily convertible into
cash at face value, either with the county or in escrow with a financial
institution designated as an official depository of the county. The use of any
instrument other than cash shall be subject to the approval of the County
Manager. The amount of deposit shall be equal to one and one-quarter times the
cost, as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the County Manager, of
installing all required improvements. If cash or other instrument is deposited
in escrow with a financial institution as provided above, then the subdivider
shall file with the County Manager an agreement between the financial
institution and himself or herself guaranteeing the following:
            1.   Said escrow account shall be held in trust until released by
the Board of County Commissioners and may not be used or pledged by the
subdivider in any other matter during the term of the escrow; and
            2.   In the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the improvements, the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the Board of County Commissioners, and submission by the Board of County
Commissioners to the financial institution of an engineer’s estimate of the
amount needed to complete the improvements, immediately either pay to the
county the funds estimated to complete the improvements, up to the full balance
of the escrow account, or deliver to the county any other instruments fully
endorsed or otherwise made payable in full to the county.
      (2)   Default. Upon DEFAULT, meaning failure on the part of the
subdivider to complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled
out in the performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the
financial institution holding the escrow account shall, if requested by the
Planning Board, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the county
up to the amount needed to complete the improvements based on an engineering
estimate. Upon payment, the Planning Board, in its discretion, may expend such
portion of the funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of
the required improvements. The county shall return to the subdivider any funds
not spent in completing the improvements.
      (3)   Release of guarantee security.
         (a)   The Board of County Commissioners may release a portion of any
security posted as the improvements are completed and recommended for approval
by the County Manager.
         (b)   Within 14 days after receiving the County Manager’s
recommendation, the Board of County Commissioners shall approve the required
improvements. If the Board of County Commissioners approves the required
improvements, then it shall immediately release any security posted.
   (E)   Resubdivision procedures. For any re-platting or re-subdivision of
land, the same procedures, rules, and regulations shall apply as prescribed
herein for an original subdivision.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 153.45  GENERAL.
   (A)   Each subdivision of land shall meet the minimum standards of design
and contain the improvements required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Land may be dedicated and reserved in each subdivision and the
required improvements shall be paid for by the subdivider or developer.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.46  SOLID WASTE SITES.
   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the County Health Department, a structural engineer,
and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.47  NAME DUPLICATION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within the county.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.48  SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (A)   Lots.
      (1)   Lot size shall be regulated as required by the County Health
Department for septic tank purposes, where applicable.
      (2)   Every lot shall front or abut on a dedicated, public street, or a
private street dedicated to a homeowners’ association. For lots with a granted
access easement, the following criteria must be met.
         (a)   An access easement shall serve only a special subdivision as
defined in §
153.04.
         (b)   The minimum easement width shall be 50 feet and shall connect to
a dedicated public or private street.
         (c)   There shall be within the access easement a minimum passable
travel way of at least 20 feet in width.
         (d)   The minimum separation between the proposed access easement and
any other access easement on the same tract of land should be 150 feet.
         (e)   The location of the easement shall be recorded on the final
recordable plat.
         (f)   The access easement shall permit ingress, egress, and regress
and necessary utilities required to serve the lot(s).
         (g)   A notation shall be placed on the face of the plat which states
that no additional lots beyond the three, including resubdivision of the lots
served by the access easement, shall be permitted unless the access easement is
upgraded by the property owner(s) to a public or private street and meets or
exceeds the design standards set forth by this chapter.
         (h)    The subdivision shall be approved by the Subdivision
Administrator or the County Planning Board in accordance with the special
subdivision procedure.
         (i)   When a special subdivision occurs adjacent to a non-conforming
access easement, if the access easement serves the special subdivision, the
portion or entirety of the access easement which serves the special subdivision
shall no longer be considered non-conforming and must meet the requirements of
this chapter.
      (3)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
      (4)   The minimum setback for all buildings and appurtenances from the
property lines shall be as follows:
         (a)   From the front property line: 30 feet;
         (b)   From the side property line: ten feet;
         (c)   From the rear property line: 25 feet;
         (d)   From the side property line adjacent to the street on corner
lots: 30 feet; or
         (e)   From the front property line on major thoroughfares: 40 feet.
   (B)   Easements.
      (1)   Existing easements recorded on or before the adoption of this
chapter shall be considered nonconforming and are not required to meet the
requirements of this chapter. However, when a subdivision occurs adjacent to an
existing easement, if the easement serves the subdivision, the portion or
entirety of the easement which serves the subdivision shall no longer be
considered non-conforming and must meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Utility and drainage easements shall be provided for utilities
where necessary and shall be at least 20 feet wide, except where utility
easements abut the street right-of-way, the easement shall be at least ten
feet. Easements should be centered on rear or side lot lines to the maximum
practical extent.
      (3)   Where a subdivision is transversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
drainage tile, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater
easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of
such watercourse, and such further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in
connection therewith.
      (4)   Private road easements shall be a minimum of 50 feet in width and
shall be recorded with the lots. When a subdivision occurs adjacent to an
existing non-conforming easement, if the easement serves the subdivision, the
portion or entirety of the easement which serves the subdivision must be
upgraded to meet this standard. This would require providing a 25 foot easement
if the subdivision only occurs on one side of the private road, or a 50 foot
easement if the subdivision occurs on both sides of the private road.
      (5)   Access easements shall meet the requirements as set forth in
division (A)(2) above.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002; Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.49  STREETS.
   (A)   General. All public streets shall be built to the standards of this
chapter and all other applicable standards of the county and the State
Department of Transportation. Public streets which are eligible for acceptance
into the State Highway System shall be constructed to the standards necessary
to be put on the State Highway System or the standards in this chapter,
whichever is stricter in regard to each particular item, and shall be put on
such system. Streets which are not eligible to be put on the State Highway
System because there are too few lots or residences shall, nevertheless, be
dedicated to the public and shall be in accordance with the standards in this
chapter or the standards necessary to be put on the State Highway System,
whichever is stricter in regard to each particular item, so as to be eligible
to be put on the system at a later date. A written maintenance agreement with
provisions for maintenance of the street until it is put on the state system
shall be recorded with the book and page referenced on the final plat.
   (B)   Subdivision street disclosure statement. All public streets shown on
the final plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6 and
designation as public shall be conclusively presumed to be an offer of
dedication to the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public but not
accepted into a municipal or the state system, before lots are sold, a
statement explaining the status of the street shall be included with the final
plat.
   (C)   Half streets. The dedication of half-streets shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Margin access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided adjoins
a principal arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide a margin
access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on a minor
street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where reverse
frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from having
direct access to the principal arterial.
   (E)   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the opinion of the Planning
Board, it is necessary to provide for street access to an adjoining property,
proposed public streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such
property and a temporary turn-around provided.
   (F)   Design standards. The design of all public streets and roads within
the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted
policies of the State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, as
taken or modified from the American Association of State Highway Officials
(AASHO) manuals. The State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways’
Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, as revised, shall apply for
any items not included in this chapter, or where stricter than this chapter.
   (G)   Public streets. For all public streets, the minimum right-of-way
widths shall be 50 feet.
      (1)   Intersections.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at an
angle less than 60 degrees.
         (b)   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless exception is
granted by the Division of Highways. Intersections which cannot be aligned
should be separated by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey centerlines.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs should not exceed 2,500 feet in length
unless necessitated by topography or property accessibility. Measurement shall
be from the point where the centerline of the dead-end street intersects with
the center of a through-street to the center of the turn-around of the cul-de-
sac. The distance from the edge of pavement on the vehicular turn-around to the
right-of-way line shall not be less than the distance from the edge of pavement
to right-of-way line on the street approaching the turn-around.
      (3)   Alleys.
         (a)   Alleys shall be required to serve lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes except that this requirement may be waived here if definite
and assured provision is made for service access. Alleys shall not be provided
in residential subdivisions unless necessitated by unusual circumstances.
         (b)   The width of an alley shall be at least 20 feet.
         (c)   Dead-end alleys are not permitted.
   (H)   Private streets.
      (1)   Private streets or roads shall meet all of the other design
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, private streets and roads shall meet the following
standards.
         (a)   The minimum right-of-way width shall be 50 feet.
         (b)   Private streets shall be constructed to meet all of the State
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways’ Construction Standards,
except for applying crushed stone or for paving.
         (c)   All private streets and roads shall be dedicated to a
homeowners’ association, which meets the following.
            1.   The homeowners’ association shall be established before the
lots are sold.
            2.   Membership in the association shall be mandatory for each lot
buyer and all successive buyers.
            3.   The association shall be responsible for the maintenance and
upkeep of the private street or road.
            4.   Any sums levied by the association that remain unpaid shall
become a lien on the individual owner’s property which shall be subordinate
only to tax and mortgagee liens.
            5.   A copy of the bylaws shall be provided to the Planning Board
and include the following:
               a.   The name of the association;
               b.   The manner in which directors of the association are to be
selected;
               c.   The post office address of the initial registered office;
               d.   The name of the city and county in which the registered
office is located;
               e.   The number of directors constituting the initial Board of
Directors; and
               f.   Voting rights.
   (I)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Through-traffic discouraged on residential collector and local
streets. Residential collector and local streets shall be laid out in such a
way that their use by through-traffic will be discouraged. Streets shall be
designated or walkways dedicated to assure convenient access to parks,
playgrounds, schools, or other places of public assembly.
      (2)   Street names. Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment
with existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in the county,
irrespective of the use of a suffix such as street, drive, place, court, and
the like. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Board.
      (3)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall be required to provide and
erect street name signs to county standards at all intersections within the
subdivision.
      (4)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is
required for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is
required prior to any construction on the street or road. The application is
available at the office of the nearest district engineer of the Division of
Highways.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.50  UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water and sewer facilities.
      (1)   Within the county’s jurisdiction, each lot in all subdivisions
located within 500 feet of a public water and/or sewer system should be
connected, at the subdivider’s or developer’s expense, to that water and/or
sewer system. If the developer provides a community water and/or sewer system
rather than connecting to another community or public water and/or sewer
system, or provides individual wells and/or septic tanks when the subdivision
is more than 500 feet away, the materials, design, and installation will be
subject to approval by the State Department of Human Resources, Division of
Health Services; State Department of Environment and Natural Resources,
Division of Environmental Management; and/or the County Health Department.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer collection lines and water distribution lines shall
meet the requirements set forth by the appropriate division within the State
Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the terms WATER SYSTEM and SEWER
SYSTEM shall include all appurtenances and fixtures normally associated with
such facilities, including fire hydrants, gate valves, blow-offs, manholes, and
pumping apparatus.
   (B)   Stormwater drainage system. The subdivider shall provide a surface
water drainage system constructed to the standards of the State Department of
Transportation or other applicable state or federal standards.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
      (4)   Surface drainage courses shall be of sufficient size to accommodate
the drainage area without flooding, and designed to comply with the standards
and specifications for erosion control of the State Sedimentation Pollution
Control Act, G.S. Ch. 113A, Art. 4, the State Administrative Code, Title 15,
Ch. 4, and any locally adopted erosion and sedimentation control ordinances.
      (5)   Streambanks and channels downstream from any land-disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land-disturbing activity in
accordance with the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. Ch. 113A,
Art. 4, and the State Administrative Code, Title 15, Ch. 4.
      (6)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the State Dam Safety Law of 1967, being G.S. §§ 143-215-23 et
seq. and the State Administrative Code, Title 15, Subch. 2K.
      (7)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (C)   Underground wiring. All subdivisions shall have underground wiring.
This requirement may be waived by the Planning Board in areas where soils have
a high water table, or if there is extensive preexisting overhead wiring on the
street in the immediate neighborhood of the subdivision.
   (D)   Lighting. Lighting in a major subdivision shall be adequate to allow
movement along the streets, but in no case shall distance between lighting
exceed 300 feet. If the average lot size in the subdivision is greater than
one-half acre and no less than 50% of the lots exceed one-half acre, then light
shall be at the discretion of the developer.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.51  OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Placement of monuments. Unless otherwise specified by this chapter,
the Standards of Practice for Land Surveying as adopted by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, under the
provisions of Title 21 of the State Administrative Code, Ch. 56 (21 NCAC 56),
shall apply when conducting surveys for subdivisions; to determine the accuracy
for surveys and placement of monuments, control corners, markers, and property
corner ties; to determine the location, design, and material of monuments,
markers, control corners, and property corner ties; and to determine other
standards and procedures governing the practice of land surveying for
subdivisions.
   (B)   Construction procedures. No building, zoning, or other permits shall
be issued for erection of a structure on any lot not of record at the time of
adoption of this chapter until the final plat has been approved and
arrangements with the administrator of this chapter to provide for adequate
inspection  have been made. The approving authorities or their representatives
have jurisdiction to inspect and approve all completed work prior to release of
the sureties.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.52  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of a planned unit development is to provide for the
development of a planned community that may incorporate a range of residential
structures (single-family and/or multi-family), commercial, office,
recreational, and resort connected uses and structures primarily for the
benefit of those residing and utilizing the residential community, wherein the
entire community is designed as to appearance, unity, shape, and form as a
community.
   (B)   A planned unit development, for purposes of this chapter, shall
contain a minimum of 20 acres, and shall contain a minimum of 15 acres devoted
to residential utilization, and a minimum of five acres devoted to commercial,
recreational, or open space utilization.
   (C)   An application for the approval of a planned unit development shall be
submitted by the property owner or owners and his, her, or their agents, and
shall be reviewed in accordance with this chapter. The application must include
a sketch plan of all of the land proposed for the PUD, and shall include the
proposed uses of all such land, as well as all additional information required
to be included in any subdivision application. If the proposed PUD meets all
requirements of this chapter and all requirements of any applicable zoning
ordinance, the application shall be approved and shall be processed as a
planned unit development.
   (D)   All provisions and restrictions contained in this chapter shall be
applicable to the subdivision of a PUD, except that the following shall not
apply:
      (1)   Setbacks from property lines as set out in §
153.48(B)(5); or
      (2)   Section 153.49(H), to the extent that private streets which are
required to be maintained by a homeowners’ association may contain medians or
land divisions, and may retain trees or other landscaped or natural features
within rights-of-way.
   (E)   (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided for automobiles on the
basis of a minimum of two spaces for individual detached single-family
dwellings and two and one-half spaces for each multi-family dwelling unit and/
or group housing dwelling unit. The gross area for required parking spaces,
aisles, and turning areas may be redistributed to group parking on commonly-
owned land. Accommodations for recreational vehicles and boats shall be
provided away from the residential areas in common open areas.
      (2)   All off-street parking spaces must be a minimum of ten feet wide by
20 feet long.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, the person who, being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his or her land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty. The county, through its attorney or
other official designated by the Board of Commissioners, may enjoin illegal
subdivision, transfer, or sale of land by action for injunction. Further, the
violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the offender to the
penalties prescribed by G.S. § 153A-334.
   (B)   Violators of this chapter shall be subject, upon conviction, to fine
and/or imprisonment as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   The Land Records Office Supervisor or his or her designees are to
enforce this chapter as it relates to the recording of illegal documents
including maps and deeds.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2002)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Enactment; preamble
   
154.02   Short title
   
154.03   Jurisdiction
   
154.04   Purpose
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Tense and number
   
154.07   Administrative Officer
   
154.08   Effective date
Planned Unit Development District
   
154.20   Purpose
   
154.21   Permitted uses
   
154.22   Minimum acreage
   
154.23   PUD acreage
   
154.24   Density of development
   
154.25   Approval
   
154.26   Change in plans
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01  ENACTMENT; PREAMBLE.
   (A)   A chapter establishing zoning regulations for a portion of the county,
a county of the state, providing for the administration, enforcement, and
amendment thereof, in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 153A, Pt. 3.
   (B)   Therefore, be it and the same is hereby enacted by the County
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.02  SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance for the County of
Beaufort, North Carolina”.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.03  JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the use and development thereon of all lands
described as a Planned Unit Development District (PUD) which is hereinafter
made a part of these regulations to the same extent as if the information set
forth on said PUD was fully described and incorporated herein. These
regulations shall further govern other properties upon request by the landowner
made subject hereto by action of the County Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.04  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, morals, and
the general welfare of the county, and to evaluate the administrative burdens
and the property owner benefits relating to the enactment and enforcement of a
zoning ordinance. This chapter has been developed with reasonable consideration
to the character of the district and its uses and in accordance with the
comprehensive land use plan.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment of Beaufort County, North
Carolina.
   BUILDING. Includes the word STRUCTURE.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Commissioners of the County of Beaufort, North Carolina.
   COUNTY. The County of Beaufort, North Carolina.
   LOT. Includes the words PLOT, PARCEL, SITE, and PREMISES.
   MAP, ZONING MAP,and BEAUFORT COUNTY ZONING MAP. The official zoning map for
the County of Beaufort, North Carolina.
   MAY. The word MAY is permissive.
   ORDINANCE AND REGULATION. The Zoning Ordinance of Beaufort County, North
Carolina.
   PERSON. A firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or
corporation as well as an individual.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Beaufort County Planning Board.
   SHALL. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Intended, designed, and arranged to be used or occupied.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.06  TENSE AND NUMBER.
   (A)   The present tense includes the future tense, and the future tense
includes the present tense.
   (B)   The singular number includes the plural number, and the plural number
includes the singular number.
   (C)   The word “and” may be read as “or” and “or” may be read as “and” where
sense requires it.
   (D)   Any citation of a statute, law, or ordinance contained in this chapter
shall be deemed to refer to such statute, law, or ordinance as amended, whether
or not such designation is included in the citation.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.07  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The primary responsibility for administering and enforcing this chapter is
assigned to the County Planner. The County Planner may be provided with
assistance of such persons as directed by the County Manager. Appeal from
decisions of the County Planner shall be made to the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be enforced from and after its passage
and adoption.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this district is to encourage comprehensive planning for
sizable tracts of land under single ownership or control so as to promote the
construction and use of appropriate commercial, retail, and recreational
service areas for the benefit of residential development within the planned
unit development and, where appropriate, additional utilization by other
residents of and visitors to the county.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.21  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, with the exception of mobile homes;
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (C)   Accessory buildings or uses;
   (D)   Office and professional facilities;
   (E)   Retail commercial facilities;
   (F)   Recreational uses, including golf courses, parks, and marinas; and
   (G)   Utility structures and facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.22  MINIMUM ACREAGE.
   No property shall be assigned a PUD zoning designation unless such property
(including any previously zoned adjacent property under common control or
ownership with the property so designated) includes 20 or more contiguous
acres. As used herein, contiguous shall include properties on opposite sides of
a street right-of-way or watercourse.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.23  PUD ACREAGE.
   In any PUD, a minimum of 75% of the total acreage within the PUD shall be
utilized for either residential or recreational purposes, including rights-of-
way adjacent to recreational or residential uses.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.24  DENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT.
   There shall be no more than two and one-half living units, average, for each
acre of the property designated PUD and utilized for residential or
recreational purposes. Within all areas within the PUD designated for
utilization for retail or office purposes, there shall be no more than 50%
impervious surface coverage (as defined by the Department of Environmental
Management of the state in implementation of the state coastal stormwater
regulations), on average, for all acreage to be so utilized.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.25  APPROVAL.
   (A)   The owner of any property seeking to have such property zoned PUD
shall submit, at or prior to the time of submission of a sketch plan under
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances, a master site and development plan for
all property zoned (or requested to be zoned) PUD. Ten copies of such site
development plan shall be submitted to the county. The site development plan
must show, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   All proposed public or private street rights-of-way;
      (2)   The proposed location of all single-family residential development;
      (3)   The proposed location of all multi-family development;
      (4)   The proposed location of all recreational amenities:
      (5)   The proposed location of all office and professional facilities;
      (6)   The proposed location of all commercial facilities;
      (7)   The proposed location of all utility facilities; and
      (8)   The proposed density of development for each site designated
single-family residential, for each site designated multi-family residential,
for each site designated for office and professional utilization, and for each
site designated for commercial utilization. Furthermore, the development plan
shall include the gross acreage for the project, the gross residential density
(including recreational and open spaces), and the impervious surface
limitations for each office, professional, and commercial site.
   (B)   The Commissioners may designate property PUD if the Commissioners
determine that the proposed development plan is in the best interest of the
county because the plan meets the requirements of this chapter and represents a
comprehensive and coordinated approach to land planning and use on the property
so designated. Adoption of a PUD zoning classification for a developmental site
shall authorize the processing of all subdivision plans within the designated
tract in accordance with the PUD provisions of the county subdivision and this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 154.26  CHANGE IN PLANS.
   The owner of each tract designated PUD shall be allowed to submit plats for
subdivision approval that are inconsistent with particular site designations as
shown on the master plan; however, if any such changes are deemed material by
the Administrator as defined in §
153.04, the applicant may be requested to provide to the county an updated
master development plan for the entire property, which updated plan must
conform with all limitations contained within this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
CHAPTER 155:  SOLAR ENERGY FACILITIES
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Authority
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Permit required
   
155.05   Permit requirements
   
155.06   Design standards
   
155.07   Permit fees
   
155.08   Planning Board decision
   
155.09   Appeals
   
155.10   Variances
   
155.11   Enforcement and remedies for violations
   
155.12   Applicability
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   To facilitate the siting, construction, installation, and operation
of solar energy facilities in the county in a manner that ensures the
protection of the health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens, while
also avoiding adverse impacts to adjacent land uses and property owners;
      (2)   To protect and enhance the economic viability and interests of the
citizens and residents of the county who have made substantial financial
investments in homes, businesses, and industry in the county;
      (3)   To preserve the dignity and aesthetic quality of the environment of
the county; and
      (4)   To preserve the physical integrity of land in close proximity to
residential areas.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abridge safety, health, or
environmental regulations contained in other applicable codes, standards, or
ordinances. The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to nullify any
provisions of any state or federal law.
   (C)   This chapter does not address residential solar use, or a small solar
array that is on a farm or other business exclusively for on site energy usage.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.02  AUTHORITY.
    This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S.
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Pt. 3.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  Any SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY that ceases to produce energy on a
continuous basis for 12 months will be considered abandoned.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT.  Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction
with a SEF. The term includes utility or transmission equipment, power
supplies, generators, batteries, equipment BUILDINGS, and storage sheds,
shelters, or similar structures.
   APPLICANT.  The SEF OWNER/SEF OPERATOR, or the person(s), entity, or company
submitting an application for a solar energy development permit on behalf of
the SEF OWNER/OPERATOR.
   BUILDING.  Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designated or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure, or protection of
persons, animals, or chattels.
   CONCENTRATED SOLAR POWER (CSP).  See THERMAL SOLAR CONVERSION.
   CONSERVATION AREA.  Such areas include natural areas protected by law, such
as wetlands that meet the definition in the Clean Water Act, 33 USC §§ 1251 et
seq.; shoreland areas; water bodies; riparian buffers; populations of
endangered or threatened species, or habitat for such species; archaeological
sites, cemeteries, and burial grounds; important historic sites; other
significant natural features and scenic viewsheds; and existing trails or
corridors that connect the tract to neighboring areas.
   DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.  A document that details the planned shut down and
removal of a SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY from operation or use.
   ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION TOWER.  A tall structure, usually a steel lattice
tower, which was set up for the purpose of transmitting and receiving power,
and is used to support high voltage overhead power lines.
   FENCE.  A continuous barrier extending from the surface of the ground to a
uniform height of not less than six feet from the ground at any given point,
constructed of chain link.
   GATE.  A door or other device attached to a FENCE which, when opened,
provides a means of ingress and egress of persons and things for which it was
intended, and which, when closed, forms a continuous barrier as part of the
FENCE to which it is attached.
   IMPROVED AREA.  Area containing perimeter fencing, SOLAR PANELS, electrical
inverters, storage BUILDINGS, and access roads.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SOLAR CONVERSION (PV).  An active solar energy system in which
sunlight is converted directly into electricity through the photovoltaic
process of converting light (photons) into electricity (voltage).
   PROPERTY OWNER.  The person(s), entity, or company having fee simple
ownership of the property where the SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY is located.
   PROTECTED BUILDING.  All residential, commercial, and institutional
BUILDINGS within 300 feet of a SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY, excluding accessory
BUILDINGS such as storage sheds.
   PUBLIC ROAD.  Any road or highway which is now or hereafter maintained by
the North Carolina Department of Transportation as part of the state highway
system. Setbacks for improved areas shall be measured from the back of the road
right-of-way.
   REPAIR.  The replacement of existing work with the same kind of material
used in the existing work, not including additional work that would change the
structural safety of the structure or that would affect or change required
existing facilities, or that would be in violation of a provision of law or
this chapter. The term REPAIR shall not apply to any change in construction.
   RESIDENCE.  A building used as a dwelling for one or more families or
persons.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY/PARTIES.  The SEF OWNER/SEF OPERATOR, as defined in this
section.
   SEF OWNER/SEF OPERATOR.  The person(s), entity, or company that engages in
or runs a SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY.
   SOLAR ARRAY.  An active solar energy system that converts sunlight into
electricity using either THERMAL or PHOTOVOLTAIC methods. Such a system has
multiple SOLAR COLLECTORS, and might include transformers, generators,
batteries, and other appurtenant structures and/or facilities.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR or SOLAR PANEL.  A device that converts sunlight into
electricity using either THERMAL or PHOTOVOLTAIC methods.
   SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY (SEF).  A commercial electricity generating facility
(PV or CSP), the primary purpose of which is to supply electricity. This
consists of one or more SOLAR ARRAYS and other accessory structures, equipment,
and BUILDINGS, including substations, battery storage, electrical
infrastructure, generators, transmission lines, and other appurtenant
structures and/or facilities. Also known as solar farms.
   STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
   THERMAL SOLAR CONVERSION.  An active solar energy system that converts
sunlight into electricity by using mirrors or lenses to collect and concentrate
heat to a small area in order to drive a heat engine, usually a conventional
steam generator. For a commercial application this is called CONCENTRATED SOLAR
POWER (CSP).
   UTILITY POLE.  A structure owned and/or operated by a public utility,
municipality, electric membership corporation, or rural electric cooperative
that is designed specifically for and used to carry lines, cables, or wires for
telephone, cable television, or electricity, or to provide lighting.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Solar energy facilities shall be subject to the requirements and
permitting process of this chapter, in addition to other applicable local,
state, and federal laws. This chapter shall apply to all areas of the county
except those lands lying within the jurisdiction of any municipality, unless
such municipality formally requests the county enforce these regulations within
the municipality's area of jurisdiction.
   (B)   Solar energy facilities must obtain a development permit from the
Planning Department prior to applying for building permits from the Inspections
Department, in accordance with the procedures outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.05  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. Before a building permit may be submitted for an SEF, a solar
energy facility development permit must first be approved by the Planning
Board.
   (B)   Permit application. Throughout the permit process, the applicant shall
promptly notify the County Planner of any changes to the information contained
in the permit application. Changes that do not materially alter the initial
site plan may be administratively accepted. The completed application for a SEF
shall consist of an electronic filing or eight paper copies, which contain at
least the following.
      (1)   Summary. A narrative overview of the SEF, including its generating
capacity.
      (2)   Inventory. A tabulation describing the:
         (a)   Number, specifications, and type of each proposed solar array,
including their generating capacity;
         (b)   Dimensions and respective manufacturers; and
         (c)   Accessory buildings and accessory equipment.
      (3)   Vicinity map. Identification of the property on which the proposed
SEF will be located. Sketch vicinity map showing relationship between SEF and
the surrounding area.
      (4)   Site plan. A plan which shows all of the following:
         (a)   Planned location of each solar array;
         (b)   All property lines within 300 feet of the property lines of the
proposed site;
         (c)   Each array's setback distance from the closest SEF boundary, the
setback of improved areas from each property line, and the separation distance
between the SEF boundary and each protected building, as identified in §
155.06(A);
         (d)   Access road and turnout locations;
         (e)   Substation(s) and accessory equipment, accessory buildings, and
structures;
         (f)   Electrical cabling from the SEF to the substation(s) and from
the substation(s) to where the electricity will leave the site, and associated
transmission lines;
         (g)   Location of any underground power lines on the site;
         (h)   Conservation areas, including natural areas protected by law,
such as wetlands that meet the definition in the Clean Water Act; shoreland
areas; water bodies; riparian buffers; populations of endangered or threatened
species (federal or state), or habitat for such species; flyways;
archaeological sites; cemeteries, and burial grounds; important local historic
sites; existing healthy, native forests consisting of at least one acre of
contiguous area; other significant natural features and scenic view sheds;
existing trails or corridors that connect the tract to neighboring areas;
         (i)   Location and width of any driveways or private roads serving the
SEF; and
         (j)   A landscaping and fencing plan that shows proposed screening and
buffering of the improved area, including all arrays, buildings, and other
accessory buildings or accessory equipment on the site. This shall include the
size, location, spacing, and species of required evergreen bushes as identified
in §
155.06(B) and (C).
      (5)   Miscellaneous. The applicant shall provide the following
information to the Planning Board:
         (a)   Certification that the proposal is for an International
Electrical Congress (IEC) solar array that is designed to meet all North
Carolina Building Codes;
         (b)   Certification that the solar arrays pass the Environmental
Protection Agency's Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TLCP) test;
         (c)   Signed copies of all original leases and/or easements and
agreements for the SEF;
         (d)   Copies of any required state and federal permits, licenses, and
the like. This shall include permits and/or approvals issued by the North
Carolina Utilities Commission; and
         (e)   Other relevant studies, reports, certifications, and approvals
as may be reasonably requested by the Planning Board to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
      (6)   Maintenance plan.
         (a)   Equipment inspections and maintenance. The applicant shall
detail inspection and maintenance procedures that will be taken to keep the SEF
operating quietly, efficiently, and not polluting land, water, or air;
         (b)   Fence maintenance. The applicant shall detail inspection and
maintenance procedures that will be taken to keep fencing and gates in good
condition until the facility is decommissioned;
         (c)   Landscaping. The applicant shall detail inspection and
maintenance procedures that will be taken to keep the required vegetative
buffer and planting area maintained, including keeping vegetation healthy,
neat, and orderly in appearance, and free of litter and debris. The applicant
shall detail maintenance procedures for keeping grasses or other ground cover
trimmed or mowed; and
         (d)   Road maintenance. The applicant shall detail inspection and
maintenance procedures that will be taken to keep private roads and driveways
serving the SEF graded, free of potholes, and passable in all weather.
      (7)   Abandonment and decommissioning plan.
         (a)   Abandonment. An SEF that ceases to produce energy on a
continuous basis for 12 months will be considered abandoned unless the current
responsible party (or parties) with ownership interest in the SEF provide
substantial evidence (updated every six months after 12 months of no energy
production) to the County Planner of the intent to maintain and reinstate the
operation of that facility. It is the responsibility of the responsible party
(or parties) to remove all equipment and facilities and restore the parcel to
its condition prior to development of the SEF.
            1.   Upon determination of abandonment, the County Planner shall
notify the party (or parties) responsible they must remove the SEF and restore
the site to its condition prior to development of the SEF within 365 days of
notice by the County Planner; and
            2.   If the responsible party (or parties) fails to comply, the
County Planner may remove the SEF, sell any removed materials, and restore the
site to the condition it was in prior to development of the SEF, using the
performance guarantee provided by division (B)(7)(c) below. If necessary, the
County Planner may initiate judicial proceedings or take any other steps
legally authorized against the responsible parties to recover the costs
required to remove the SEF and restore the site to the condition prior to
development.
         (b)   Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan signed by the party
responsible for decommissioning and the property owner addressing the following
shall be submitted with the permit application:
            1.   Anticipated life of the SEF;
            2.   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be
initiated (for example, end of land lease, no power production for 12 months,
and the like);
            3.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, solar panels, roads, and foundations;
            4.   Restoration of the property to the condition prior to
development of the SEF;
            5.   Time frame for completion of decommissioning activities, not
to exceed one year;
            6.   Description and copy of any lease or other agreement with the
property owner regarding decommissioning;
            7.   Name and address of the person or party responsible for
decommissioning;
            8.   Plans and schedule for updating the decommissioning plan;
            9.   A verifiable means of determining if the decommissioning plan
needs to be activated due to cessation of use for 365 days, such as a letter
from the electric utility stating that it will notify the Planning Department
within ten business days if electricity is not received from an array within
the SEF for 365 days;
            10.   Before the final solar energy facility development permit is
issued, provide evidence that the decommissioning plan was recorded with the
Register of Deeds to the County Planner or his/her designee; and
            11.   Estimated decommissioning costs including contingency costs
of at least 25% (in current dollars), as provided by an appropriately
experienced, state licensed engineer, under seal.
         (c)   Performance guarantee.
            1.   Prior to the issuance of a solar energy facility development
permit, the applicant must provide the county with a form of surety equal to
125% of the entire cost of decommissioning under the plan, as estimated by a
state licensed engineer under seal, approved by the County Manager and County
Attorney, either through cash, a surety performance bond, irrevocable letter of
credit, or other instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either
with the county or in escrow with a financial institution designated as an
official depository of the county. Surety performance bonds must renew
automatically, include a minimum 90-day notice to the county prior to
cancellation, and be from a company on the U.S. Department of Treasury's
listing of certified companies. Irrevocable letters of credit must be for the
entire estimated life of the SEF.
            2.   This surety shall be retained by the county to cover the cost
of the decommissioning requirements herein. Following initial submittal of the
surety, the cost calculation for decommissioning shall be reviewed every five
years, and adjusted accordingly based upon an updated estimate of a state
licensed engineer under seal, of the estimated decommissioning costs. Failure
to comply with any requirement of this section shall result in the immediate
termination and revocation of all prior approvals and permits; further, the
county shall be entitled to make immediate demand upon, and/or retain any
proceeds of, the surety, which shall be used for decommissioning and/or removal
of the solar energy facility, even if still operational.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.06  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Setback and separation requirements.
      (1)   The fence which secures the SEFs improved areas shall be setback at
least 100 feet from all property lines and all public rights-of-way. Solar
arrays and other equipment shall be setback at least 25 feet from the interior
fence line of the SEF. SEFs shall be separated by a minimum distance of 300
feet from all residential, commercial, and institutional buildings, with the
exception of accessory buildings such as storage sheds. Such minimum setbacks
for a SEF shall be measured from the required fence of the facility.
      (2)   The property owner of an affected building may, for itself but not
on behalf of another protected building, waive all or any portion of the
separation requirements set forth herein. The 100 foot setback distance from
all property lines and all public rights-of-way would still apply in the event
of a waiver. Said waiver shall be in writing and shall be in the form of an
easement, with the SEF as the servient estate, and the protected building as
the dominant estate. The waiver/easement shall state any conditions or site
plan modifications to the regulated use mutually agreed upon by the SEF, the
owner of the protected building, and the County Planner, as consideration for
the granting of the easement. In no event shall any conditions or site plan
modifications decrease the SEFs responsibilities under this chapter. The waiver
shall be signed and acknowledged by the record owners of the fee interest of
the protected building, and by the owner of the fee interest of the SEF, and,
if different, by all of the property owners of the property on which the SEF is
located. The waiver shall further be signed by the County Planner, whose
signature shall serve as a certification that the requirements of this division
have been met.
      (3)   Following recordation in the County Register of Deeds, the
separation requirements of this division between said protected building and
the SEF shall be deemed amended to conform to the provisions of the waiver. The
easement granted by said waiver shall be appurtenant to and run with the land
and shall be binding on the parties, their heirs, successors, and assigns;
provided, that the same shall by its express provisions terminate at such time
as the SEF ceases to have a valid development permit for the operation of the
SEF which is the subject of the waiver.
   (B)   Fencing. A fence shall be required around the entire perimeter of the
SEF to secure its improved areas. The location of the fence shall be determined
by the required setbacks and separation requirements outlined in division (A).
All solar arrays and other equipment must be located inside the required fence.
The fence must be a minimum of six feet in height and shall be constructed of
chain link. Angled barbed wire shall run along the top of the fence for the
entire perimeter of the fence for security purposes. The gate for ingress and
egress to the SEF must be locked for security purposes.
   (C)   Vegetative buffer.
      (1)   A vegetative buffer shall be installed in front of the fence within
the required setback of the SEF for the entire perimeter of the SEF. The
vegetative buffer shall consist of a row of evergreen bushes, planted no more
than eight feet apart, which are at least six feet tall at the time of
planting, and which will reach at maturity a minimum height of 15 feet within
three years of planting. The bushes may be trimmed, but to no lower than a
height of 15 feet.
      (2)   The evergreen bushes must provide full screening from two feet
above ground level to the required 15 foot height. The evergreen bushes must
grow to a minimum of eight feet in width at the base, or the spacing between
bushes must be reduced.
      (3)   The evergreen bushes should be installed according to established
planting techniques, including establishing a well-prepared planting area. The
vegetative buffer must be maintained, including keeping vegetation healthy,
neat, and orderly in appearance, and free of litter and debris. Species native
to Eastern North Carolina are recommended. Where adequate vegetative screening
exists on the parcel where the SEF is located, the existing vegetative buffer
may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section, with the approval of
the Planning Board.
   (D)   Ground cover. Soil with adequate vegetative cover must be maintained
under and around the panels in order to reduce runoff and erosion. Native
grasses and wildflowers are encouraged to be used as ground cover for the SEF.
Benefits of using native grasses and wildflowers include improved erosion
control, pesticide avoidance, stormwater infiltration, wildlife habitat, and
reduced overall maintenance. In addition, native flowering plants provide a
food source and habitat for wild native bees. Promoting habitat for native bees
and other pollinators can have a positive ecological impact on disturbed sites,
as well as a positive economic impact on neighboring insect pollinated crops.
Once established, these naturalized meadows are more drought tolerant and
require little to no fertilization. See the North Carolina Wildlife Resources
Commission's publication titled, "Recommendations for Establishing Native
Pollinator Habitat on Solar Farms in North Carolina" for more details.
   (E)   Environmental impacts. SEFs must meet all requirements of the state
and the federal government, and provide copies of all required state and
federal permits, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Stormwater permit from the state Department of Environmental
Quality;
      (2)   Erosion and sedimentation control permit from the state Department
of Environmental Quality;
      (3)   Certificate of public convenience and necessity from the state
Utilities Commission; and
      (4)   Section 404 wetlands permit from U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
where applicable.
   (F)   Roads. The minimum right-of-way width of private roads and driveways
serving the SEF shall be 50 feet. Private roads and driveways shall be
constructed to meet all of the North Carolina Department of Transportation's
(NC DOT) design standards, except for applying crushed stone for paving. A
driveway permit must be obtained from NC DOT, and a copy of said permits shall
be provided to the Planning Board. The SEF owner shall be responsible for road
maintenance, including keeping roads and driveways serving the SEF graded, free
of potholes, and passable in all weather.
   (G)   Lighting and electrical emissions. The design and construction of SEFs
shall not produce light emissions, either direct or indirect (reflective), that
would interfere with pilot vision and/or traffic control operations as stated
in the most recent Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) report, as well
as low level military training routes as then utilized by any branch of the
U.S. Department of Defense. The design and construction of SEFs shall not
produce electrical emissions that would interfere with aircraft communication
systems or navigation equipment as stated in the most recent AICUZ report, as
well as low level military training routes as then utilized by any branch of
the U.S. Department of Defense.
   (H)   Power lines. On site power lines between solar panels and inverters
shall be placed underground and must meet all requirements of the North
Carolina Electrical Code.
   (I)   Solar panel height. The height of solar panels shall not exceed the
height of the required vegetative buffer, as identified in division (C).
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.07  PERMIT FEES.
   A non-refundable application fee of $500 shall be submitted with each
application for a solar energy development permit.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.08  PLANNING BOARD DECISION.
   (A)   Public hearing. The input of local citizens shall be solicited by the
Planning Board in at least one public hearing on the permit application.
   (B)   Approval. In order for the Planning Board to grant a solar energy
facility development permit, all the requirements of this chapter must be
satisfied. The Planning Board shall have the authority to decide, based on
majority vote, whether to grant approval of a solar energy facility development
permit.
   (C)   Expiration of approval. A solar energy facility development permit
shall expire if construction has not begun within 365 days of issuance of the
permit. A solar energy facility development permit shall automatically expire
if there are any changes in ownership, cessation of the corporation,
partnership, or transfer to another person. In this case, the new SEF owner(s)
shall have 60 days to submit a new permit application meeting the requirements
of §
155.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.09  APPEALS.
   (A)   Ability to appeal. Any aggrieved SEF owner or developer may file an
appeal to the Board of Commissioners relating to the interpretation or
application of this chapter.
   (B)   Time limit and notice. Any appeal must be filed within 45 days of the
decision. Written notice which states the basis or grounds for appeal shall be
provided to the Clerk to the Board or the County Manager.
   (C)   Public meeting. The appeal shall be heard during a regular meeting of
the Board of Commissioners within 90 days of the receipt of the appeal notice.
   (D)   Decision. Appeals shall be decided by majority vote of the Board of
Commissioners. The Board shall provide a written decision regarding the appeal
which includes findings of fact, rationale for the decision, and a summary of
evidence or testimony presented. The burden of providing substantial evidence
or testimony is upon the person or entity who filed the appeal.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.10  VARIANCES.
   A variance from the provisions of this chapter may be authorized by the
Planning Board, provided that all of the following criteria are met:
   (A)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of this
chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
   (B)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance;
   (C)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
   (D)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of this chapter, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.11  ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement. The enforcement officer shall be the County Planner or
his/her designee. The enforcement officer shall review site plans and make
appropriate recommendations to the Planning Board. The enforcement officer
shall also visit the SEFs regulated by this chapter as needed, and if the
facility does not conform to this chapter, shall discuss with the SEF owner
and/or SEF operator the steps needed to bring the SEF into compliance. If these
steps are not taken, the enforcement officer shall notify the SEF owner in
writing of the steps that must be taken to bring the facility into compliance.
If the SEF owner or SEF operator still fails to bring the facility into
compliance with this chapter, the enforcement officer, after consultation with
the County Manager, shall initiate the necessary steps to enforce this chapter
in accordance with §
155.99. The enforcement officer shall also assist the SEF owners and/or SEF
operators in making plans to comply with this chapter.
   (B)   Remedies. This chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable
remedy issued from a court of competent jurisdiction. It may be enforced by
injunction and order of abatement. The county may apply for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and order of abatement commanding the violator to
correct any unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of the property.
The county may request an order of abatement as part of a judgment in the case,
and may request the court to close, demolish, or remove buildings or other
structures or take any other action that is necessary to bring the SEF into
compliance with this chapter. This chapter may be enforced by any one or more
of the remedies authorized herein.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.12  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all SEFs proposed or constructed after its
effective date. Modifications to an existing SEF that increases the area by
more than 20% of the original footprint or changes the solar panel type shall
be subject to this chapter. This chapter shall apply to all areas of the county
except those lands lying within the jurisdiction of any municipality, unless
such municipality formally requests the county enforce these regulations within
the municipality's area of jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation shall be a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporation, or
other entity who constructs, maintains, or operates, or who controls the
maintenance of a SEF in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to prosecution, and if convicted, shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $500, or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both,
in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Each day that said SEF is constructed, maintained, or operated in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
      
III.   STREET NAMING
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed   Description
No.
--    -        Granting a cable television system in all or part of Beaufort
               County
-     1-2-1979 Granting a cable television franchise in the City of
               Washington
Res.  2-5-1979 Granting a cable television franchise to Beaufort Cable TV,
               Inc.
Res.  3-6-1979 Granting a cable franchise to Beaufort Cable TV, Inc.
-     6-1-1982 Granting a cable franchise in Pantego Township of Beaufort
               County
Res.  7-13-    Granting a cable franchise to Belhaven Cable TV
      1982
-     10-5-    Granting a cable television franchise to Belhaven Cable TV,
      1982     Inc.
-     7-7-1987 Granting a cable television system in Bath Township of
               Beaufort County
-     3-7-1989 Granting a cable television franchise to Red’s TV and Cable,
               Inc.
-     7-7-1992 Granting a cable television franchise to Multimedia
               Cabletelevision
 
TABLE II:  IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing construction of a vocational building at
-             2-6-1990    Aurora High School and renovation of the present
                          vocational facility at Bath Elementary School
-             10-6-1992   Authorizing the community development project also
                          known as the 1992 Community Development Project
 
TABLE III:  STREET NAMING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res.          12-4-1978   Naming SR 1600 as Braddy Road
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S.  CitesCode Section
G.S.  Cites                Code Section
7A                          152.33
                            10.99,
14-4                        33.99,
                            113.99,
                            153.99
14-177 through 14-202.1     113.03,
                            113.04
14-203 through 14-206       113.03,
                            113.04
14-288.13                   33.25
15-27.2                     91.10
Art. 26                     113.03,
                            113.04
Art. 27                     113.03,
                            113.04
40A                         31.26
                            153.32,
47-30                       153.33,
                            153.34
62A                         30.01
67-4.1                      90.31
67-4.1(b)(1)                90.31
74-46 through 74-68         114.01
87                          110.02
105-277.2 through 105-277.7 151.005
105-277.3                   151.005
106-735 through 106-744     151.002
106-737                     151.060
106-739                     151.025
106-740                     151.095,
                            151.096
106-744(e)                  151.032
113A, Art. 4                153.50
126-1 et seq.               32.003,
                            32.082
130A-17                     91.10
                            91.05,
130A-24                     91.06,
                            91.08
130A-24(b)                  91.05
130A-185                    90.32,
                            90.99
130A-290                    152.05
130A-290(a)(6)              152.05
130A-290(a)(35)             152.05
130A-290(a)(36)             152.05
130A-294(b l)(3)            114.02
130A-313(10)                153.04
130A-498                    93.03
136-102.6                   153.04,
                            153.49
139-1 et seq.               10.18
143, Art. 21                114.01
143, Art. 21, Pt. 6         152.01
143-143.15                  152.46
143-212                     91.03
143-215-23 et seq.          153.50
143-215.1                   114.01
143B-290                    114.01
153A                        31.06,
                            151.002
153a-103(1)                 32.060
153A, Pt. 3                 154.01
153A, Art. 6, Pt. 121       152.01
153A, Art. 18               153.05
153A, Art. 18, Pt. 2        153.02
153A, Art. 18, Pt. 3        155.02
153A, Art. 18, Pts. 3 and 4 152.01
153A-46                     112.01
153A-49                     10.19,
                            10.20
153A-121                    91.02,
                            150.001
153A-121(a)                 93.03
153A-122                    110.08
                            10.99,
                            51.99,
153A-123                    91.99,
                            110.99,
                            112.01,
                            150.999
153A-134                    110.01
153A-138                    150.006
153A-201                    151.079
153A-250                    112.01
153A-321                    153.04
153A-330                    153.30
153A-331                    153.31
153A-333                    153.13
153A-334                    153.99
153A-345.1                  150.075
160A-11                     10.18
162B                        33.11
166A                        33.02
166A-19.22                  33.25
290(a)                      114.01
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        9-3-1974    31.01 -
                     31.11
-        2-3-1975    51.06
-        8-4-1975    31.25-
                     31.36
-        10-6-1975   51.06
-        11-3-1975   33.01-
                     33.12
                     33.25-
-        7-5-1977    33.37,
                     33.99
-        2-7-1978    110.03
-        6-6-1978    51.22
-        12-4-1978   TSO Table III
-        2-5-1979    TSO Table I
-        3-6-1979    TSO Table I
                     113.01 -
-        10-2-1979   113.12,
                     113.99
-        7-13-1982   TSO Table I
-        8-5-1992    32.096,
                     32.118
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table I
                     51.01 -
                     51.06,
                     51.20 -
-        1-7-1974    51.25,
                     51.40 -
                     51.44,
                     51.99
-        9-3-1974    31.01 -
                     31.11
-        8-4-1975    31.25 -
                     31.36
-        10-6-1975   90.01,
                     90.99
-        11-3-1975   33.01 -
                     33.12
                     33.25 -
-        7-5-1977    33.37,
                     33.99
                     110.01 -
-        1-3-1978    110.09,
                     110.99
-        1-2-1979    TSO Table I
-        2-5-1979    TSO Table I
-        3-6-1979    TSO Table I
                     113.01 -
-        10-2-1979   113.12,
                     113.99
-        6-1-1982    TSO Table I
-        7-13-1982   TSO Table I
-        10-5-1982   TSO Table I
-        7-7-1987    TSO Table I
1        5-10-1988   TSO Table II
-        3-7-1989    TSO Table I
-        2-6-1990    TSO Table II
                     32.001 -
                     32.008,
                     32.020 -
                     32.021,
                     32.035 -
                     32.042 -
-        10-2-1990   32.055 -
                     32.060,
                     32.075 -
                     32.082,
                     32.095 -
                     32.104,
                     32.115 -
                     32.122
-        10-3-1990   32.096,
                     32.104
2        4-2-1991    TSO Table II
2        7-2-1991    TSO Table II
3        8-6-1991    TSO Table II
-        7-7-1992    TSO Table I
-        10-6-1992   TSO Table II
-        11-4-1992   30.01
                     154.01 -
-        3-14-1994   154.08,
                     154.20 -
                     154.26
                     50.01,
95-1     1-9-1995    50.02,
                     50.04
                     91.01 -
-        4-4-2000    91.10,
                     91.99
                     114.01 -
-        12-4-2001   114.08,
                     114.99
                     153.01 -
                     153.16,
                     153.30 -
-        1-8-2002    153.34,
                     153.45 -
                     153.52,
                     153.99
                     92.01 -
-        4-7-2003    92.04,
                     92.99
                     152.01 -
                     152.15,
                     152.30 -
-        5-5-2003    152.33,
                     152.45 -
                     152.51,
                     152.99
                     150.001 -
                     150.007,
                     150.020 -
                     150.024,
                     150.035 -
-        10-2-2006   150.041,
                     150.055 -
                     150.057,
                     150.070 -
                     150.080,
                     150.999
-        1-8-2007    50.01 -
                     50.07
                     151.001 -
                     151.013,
                     151.025 -
                     151.032,
                     151.045 -
                     151.048,
-        8-6-2007    151.060 -
                     151.062,
                     151.075 -
                     151.080,
                     151.095,
                     151.096,
                     151.110 -
                     151.112
                     111.01 -
-        12-1-2008   111.08,
                     111.99
                     90.15 -
-        9-9-2013    90.33,
                     90.99
                     93.01 -
-        10-7-2013   93.09,
                     93.99
-        5-5-2014    152.07
                     112.01 -
                     112.14,
-        6-2-2014    112.25 -
                     112.31,
                     112.99
-        - -         153.48
                     112.01 -
                     112.14,
-        9-10-2018   112.25 -
                     112.31,
                     112.99
                     155.01 -
-        11-5-2018   155.12,
                     155.99
                    
 
