TOWN OF CANTON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-35 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 032824-1, passed 3-28-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Mayor
Zeb Smathers
Board of Aldermen/Alderwomen
Gail Mull
Dr. Ralph Hamlett
Kristina Proctor
Tim Shepard
Interim Town Manager
Melissa Stinnett
Town Clerk
Melissa Stinnett
Attorney
William Morgan
 
FOREWORD
This Code of Ordinances for the Town of Canton is provided by the North
Carolina League of Municipalities as part of its services program. Technical
staff assistance has been provided by Public Research and Management, Inc., of
Atlanta, Georgia, which was responsible for the organization, codification,
indexing and printing of the Code.
The Code consists of:
The Charter and all local acts which are not a part of the Charter document;
State laws which govern the organization and procedure of the municipal
governing body;
these laws control where applicable unless the Charter provides otherwise; and
The Code of Ordinances, which includes citations referring to official source
and date of original ordinances; those without citations represent new
ordinances.
This Code is designed to serve as a complete compilation of ordinances and as a
reliable reference guide. The parts, chapters and articles of the Code follow
in logical order. The table of contents, the sectional analysis at the
beginning of each chapter, and the indices provide sufficient points of
reference for all elements of the Code.
The League offers a full range of services to supplement this Code and to keep
it current. It is published in loose-leaf form so that all new ordinances may
be printed for inclusion on a regular basis. A periodic update-supplement
service is available from the League, secured through an agreement between the
Town and the League, whereby the Town will send new ordinances and amendments
to the League, which will print replacement pages for the Code. Also, the
League will supplement the sections on State laws and local acts as amendments,
changes or new enactments occur in the General Assembly.
We gratefully acknowledge the cooperation and assistance rendered by the Canton
officials, particularly that of Mr. William Stamey and Mr. Al Matthews, in the
preparation of this Code.
                     S. Leigh Wilson
                     Executive Director
                     North Carolina League of Municipalities
DIVISION I
THE CHARTER AND OTHER RELATED LAWS
THE CHARTER
CHAPTER 1 Introduction
Section
1-1   Prior Charter amended; name of Town changed from Peon River to Canton.
Section
1-2   Incorporation continued; corporate name and general corporate power.
Section
1-3   Corporate Ratite.
Section 1-1 Prior Charter amended; name of Town changed from Pigeon River to
Canton.
Chapter two hundred and sixty-five, Private Laws of one thousand eight hundred
and ninety-one, entitled "An act to incorporate the town of Pigeon River, in
Haywood County, North Carolina," as amended by chapter forty-three, Private
Laws of one thousand eight hundred and ninety-three, changing the name of said
town from Pigeon River to Canton, be and the same is hereby amended so as to
read as follows.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 1)
Section 1-2 Incorporation continued; corporate name and general corporate
powers.
The inhabitants of the Town of Canton, Haywood County, N. C., shall be and
continue as heretofore, together with those taken in by the extension of the
corporate limits by the next section of this act, a body politic and corporate,
and shall bear the name and style of the "Town of Canton," and under such name
and style it is hereby invested with all the property and rights of property
which now belong to the present Town of Canton; and by the corporate name of
the Town of Canton it may purchase and hold for the purpose of its government,
welfare and improvement all such real estate and personal property as may be
deemed necessary therefor, or as may be conveyed, devised or bequeathed to it,
and may from time to time sell, dispose of and re-invest as shall be deemed
advisable by the Board of Aldermen of said Town.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 2)
Section 1-3 Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of said Town shall hereafter be as follows:
Beginning on the Southeast bank of Pigeon River, at the mouth of Smathers-Pharr
branch, thence up said branch four general calls as follows: South eight
degrees West four hundred five feet to a marker; South fifty-seven degrees
thirty minutes East four hundred forty six feet to a marker; South three
degrees West eighty-three feet to a marker, crossing bridge leading to
substation at forty feet; South forty-nine degrees East one hundred ninety feet
to a stake in center of said branch in the Smathers-Pharr old line; thence up
said branch as follows: South eighty-six degrees thirty minutes East one
hundred seventy-three feet to a stake in the East margin of Pisgah Drive;
thence same course South eighty-six degrees thirty minutes East three hundred
fifty-nine feet to a marker in the center of small bridge over said branch;
North nineteen degrees fifteen minutes East two hundred sixty-two feet to a
marker in the North margin of State Highway; thence with the North margin of
same South seventy-two degrees twenty minutes East three hundred sixty feet to
a marker in line of wire fence; North nineteen degrees fifteen minutes East one
hundred seventy-eight feet to a marker in the South margin of Poplar Street, at
East end of said street; thence same course North nineteen degrees fifteen
minutes East seven hundred eleven feet to a marker in George Johnson's line;
then with his line one course, South eighty-two degrees thirty minutes East two
hundred eighty feet to a "Marker"; North nineteen degrees fifteen minutes East
four hundred feet to a marker in the center of Johnson Branch; thence up and
with center line of said branch with the various meanders of same seven hundred
eighty-six feet, more or less, to a marker in the Nana Jackson old line; thence
with said line as follows: North three degrees West sixty feet to the center of
Holtzclaw Street; North three degrees West five hundred seventy-seven and five-
tenths feet to a marker; thence leaving the said Jackson old line North fifty-
seven degrees East seven hundred fifty-one feet to a marker at a small cherry
tree, in the J. A. May old line; thence with said line one call as follows:
North seven degrees thirty minutes East ninety-eight feet to a stake on the
South margin of Dutch Cove Road; thence crossing said road, South eight degrees
fifty minutes West ninety-one bet; to an iron pipe, Johnson and Smathers old
corner; thence with Smathers and Johnson old line, North four degrees thirty
minutes East three hundred sixty-three feet to a marker in corner of fence;
thence with said Smathers and Johnson old line North sixty-nine degrees fifteen
minutes West eight hundred forty-three feet to a marker in fence, one hundred
seventy-five feet East of the East margin of Williams Street; thence with a
line one hundred seventy-five feet from the East margin of said Williams Street
and parallel to said East margin twelve hundred and ten feet to a marker twenty
feet South of South margin of United States Highway Number nineteen and twenty-
three; thence with the line twenty feet South of South margin of United States
Highway Number nineteen and twenty-three and parallel to same, South eighty-
eight degrees and forty-five minutes East fourteen hundred and sixty-nine feet
to a marker in the Dr. Johnson old line; thence with said old line South five
degrees fifteen minutes West one hundred ninety-three feet to a marker in
corner of fence on hill; thence East eleven hundred and forty-six feet to a
marker at a walnut stump in the Abel old line; thence with said line North ten
degrees West one hundred seventy feet to a marker In the South margin of old
turnpike (now the North margin of a small branch); South seventy-eight degrees
West one hundred sixty-two feet center line of a road over a culvert; thence
North sixty-eight degrees West one hundred forty-three feet to the South end of
a culvert under United States Highway Number nineteen and twenty-three; thence
with center line of said culvert crossing United States Highway Number nineteen
and twenty-three North twenty-eight degrees forty minutes West forty-three feet
to the North end of said culvert in the North margin of said United States
Highway Number nineteen and twenty-three; thence with the North margin of said
highway South eighty-nine degrees fifteen minutes West one hundred four feet to
a marker in North margin of said highway; thence leaving the highway North
seven degrees East passing through concrete culvert under Southern Railway
three hundred thirty feet to a marker on the North side of said Southern
Railway; thence westerly with the line one hundred feet North of the center
line of Southern Railway and parallel to the center line of said railway twelve
hundred fifty feet to a marker one hundred feet from the center line of said
Southern Railway, same being on the West margin of the Davis Road; North
nineteen degrees thirty minutes West nine hundred and five feet to a marker at
Southeast corner of Harrison Street; North seventy-six degrees East one hundred
twenty-five feet to a marker at end of graded road; North nineteen degrees
forty-five minutes East four hundred seventyfive feet to a marker in the South
margin of Flint Street; North fifty-five degrees thirty minutes East six
hundred twenty-five feet to a marker in fence; thence South twenty-seven
degrees East two hundred forty feet to a marker in corner of fence; thence
South thirty-four degrees forty-five minutes East two hundred fifteen feet to a
marker; thence South forty-one degrees fifteen minutes East one hundred ninety-
five feet to a marker in Lee Davis' line; thence same course South forty-one
degrees fifteen minutes East thirty-five feet to a marker on top of ridge;
thence north eighty-six degrees East one hundred fifteen feet to a marker in
the North margin of Star Ridge Road; thence same course North eighty-six
degrees East one hundred feet to a marker on side of hill; thence with a line
one hundred feet from the North margin of Star Ridge Road and parallel to same
two calls as follows: North twenty-two degrees thirty minutes West four hundred
fifty feet to a marker; thence North forty-three degrees West six hundred
fifty-five feet to a marker in land line between Everhart and Coman; thence
with said land line South thirty-six degrees thirty minutes West one hundred
feet to a marker in the North margin of Star Ridge Road; thence with said North
margin of Star Ridge Road North sixtysix degrees thirty minutes West two
hundred sixty-two feet to a marker; thence North thirty degrees fifty minutes
West two hundred thirtyfive feet to a marker in Northeast margin of said road;
thence North forty-three degrees west seventy-three feet to a marker which is
one hundred fifty feet Northeast of the Northeast margin of Newfound Road;
thence North fortyfive degrees East one hundred seventy-five feet to a marker;
thence with a line parallel to and one hundred fifty feet from a Northeast
margin of Newfound Street, North eleven degrees thirty-five minutes East one
thousand one hundred fifteen feet to a marker; thence North thirty-eight
degrees East two hundred seventyfive feet to a marker at William's barn; thence
North sixty-nine degrees thirty minutes West twenty-eight feet to a large red
oak, William's corner; Thence North two degrees fifteen minutes East eight
hundred and four feet to an iron pin in the center of Newfound Road; North
seventy-eight degrees West one hundred and eleven feet to a marker in a wire
fence; thence with fence as follows: North one degree fifty minutes East three
hundred seventy-nine feet to a marker in said wire fence; thence South seventy-
nine degrees fifteen minutes West two hundred seventy-four feet to a marker at
a locust stump on the North side of road leading to reservoir; South eighty-
nine degrees West eighty-three feet to a marker in the North margin of said
road; thence with the North margin of said road as follows: westerly with the
North margin of said road, seven hundred thirty feet to a marker on top of
hill; thence South eightythree degrees West four hundred and seven feet to a
marker, passing present reservoir fence at seventeen feet North of same; South
seventeen degrees twenty minutes East three hundred and two feet to a marked
plum bush; thence with wire fence South three degrees East three hundred forty-
six and five-tenths feet to a marker in said wire fence; North seventy degrees
West three hundred fourteen feet to a marker at light pole Northwest side of a
road and corner of Owen's lot; thence with wire fence and Owen's line two calls
as follows: North eighty-five degrees West two hundred thirty-one feet to a
marker in corner of fence, Owen's Northwest corner; thence with his line South
eight degrees West one hundred thirty feet to a marker, Owen's Southwest
corner; South eighty-five degrees thirty minutes West seven hundred ninety-four
feet to a large hickory stump near the East margin of a farm road; South
eighteen degrees fifteen minutes West eight hundred eighty-one feet to a marker
in the center of Moore Branch; thence westerly, down and with the center of
said Moore Branch twenty-seven hundred and seventy feet to the junction with
Beaverdam Creek; thence down and with the center of said Beaverdam Creek,
sixteen hundred and sixty-two feet to the Hipps Old Mill Dam, at station
(Number one hundred thirty-three; South thirty-three degrees West one hundred
eighty-one feet to a marker at a light pole six feet East of the East end of
bridge over Beaver dam Creek in West margin of Beaverdam Road; South sixty-
three degrees West one hundred sixty-five and five-tenths feet to a marker in
the center of Pigeon River; thence down and with the said Pigeon River, one
thousand ninety-six feet to a marker in the center of said river; thence South
seventy-one degrees fifteen minutes West sixty-five feet to a marker at a large
marked 'beech tree on the South bank of said river, South seventy-one degrees
fifteen minutes West three hundred forty-seven feet to a marker on top of ridge
in wire fence; South thirty-six degrees forty-five minutes West nine hundred
seventy feet to a marker in East margin of road near a spring and large white
oak; thence with East margin of said road South twelve degrees thirty minutes
West three hundred thirteen feet to a marker in center of old abandoned road;
thence with center of said road South eighteen degrees thirty minutes East one
hundred ninety-five feet to a marker in center of said old road; thence with
said road South forty degrees East two hundred twenty-five feet to a marker in
North margin of Fibreville Road; thence with North margin of said road North
sixty-seven degrees forty-five minutes East two hundred thirteen feet to a
marker in North margin of said road; thence North fifty-four degrees thirty
minutes East one hundred fifty-eight feet to a marker on North bank of said
road; So4th fifteen degrees thirty minutes East two hundred forty-three feet to
a marker and witnesses; South sixty-four degrees twenty-eight minutes East
eight hundred twenty-five feet to a marker on a ridge; South seventy-five
degrees East four hundred sixty feet to the East margin of State Highway;
thence with East margin of said road southwesterly course two thousand sixty-
seven feet to a marker designated as point "B" on city map; thence continuing
with the East margin of said road, three hundred forty-three feet to a marker
in the South margin of the United States Highway Number nineteen and twenty-
three; thence with the margin of said highway South sixty degrees East two
hundred sixteen feet to a marker which is sixty-four feet North of center line
of the main line of the Southern Railway; South twenty-one degrees thirty
minutes West one hundred forty-seven feet to a marker at a red oak stump,
crossing railroad at sixty-four feet; South six degrees forty minutes East
thirteen hundred feet to a marker on top of ridge at a transmission tower;
thence down said ridge as follows: North eighty-three degrees East nine hundred
eighty feet to a marker which stands six feet South of circular reservoir;
thence South fifty-eight degrees five minutes East twelve hundred twenty-five
feet to an iron pin in the center of North driveway at armory and Southeast
margin of State Highway; thence with the Southeast margin of said highway South
forty-three degrees West one hundred fifty-one feet to a marker in Southeast
margin of said highway; thence South sixty-four degrees West two hundred
twenty-one feet to a masker seventy-eight degrees thirty-five minutes West one
hundred seventy-one fat to a marker in Southeast margin of said highway; thence
leaving said highway and following • the line of Carolina Power and Light
Company South five degrees East three hundred sixty-six feet to the center of
Pigeon River; thence down center of said river with its various meanders nine
hundred seventy feet to a marker in the center of said river opposite the mouth
of Smathers-Pharr Branch; thence South fifty-eight degrees five minutes East
seventy fat to the beginning.
The territory described in Section one of this Act (above paragraph) shall be
and constitute the corporate limits of the Town of Canton after passage of this
Act.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 3; Private Laws 1911, Ch. 178, Sec. 2; Private
Laws 1917, Ch. 56, Sec. 1; Private Laws 1920 [Extra Session), Ch. 78, Sec. 2, 3
; Private Laws 1929, Ch. 9, Sec. 1, 2; Public Local Laws 1939, Ch. 543, Sec. 1;
Private Laws 1941, Ch. 376, Sec. 1, 2; Session Laws 1943, Ch. 427, Sec. 1, 2;
Section Laws 1945, Ch. 268, Sec. 2)
CHAPTER 2 General Administration
Section
2-1   Town officers generally.
Section
2-2   Election and terms of mayor and aldermen.
Section
2-3   Division of Town into wards; voting places and ballot boxes.
Section
2-4   Officers to have powers, rights and privileges conferred by general law.
Section
2-5   Authority of Aldermen to abate nuisances and prescribe rules and
ordinances.
Section
2-6   Town manager.
Section 2-1 Town officers generally.
The officers of the Town of Canton shall hereafter consist of a mayor and three
aldermen, who shall have power to appoint all such officers, agents and
employees, including a chief of police and other policemen, Town clerk,
attorney, treasurer, tax collector and all other such officers and agents as
may be necessary, for the purpose of conducting the business of said Town, and
the enforcement of its laws, rules and ordinances.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 4; Private Laws 1920 [Extra Session], Ch. 78,
Sec. 4; Private Laws 1923, Ch. 204, Sec. 1)
Editorial Note: By a charter amendment approved at a referendum on November.6,
1979, the number of Aldermen was increased from three to four, and the mayor's
right to vote on any issue was restricted to cases of tie votes by the Board of
Aldermen.
Section 2-2 Election and terms of mayor and aldermen.
At the next regular election officers of the Town of Canton, North Carolina, to
be held in 2013 as determined by the Haywood County Board of Elections, the
qualified voters of the Town of Canton shall elect four Aldermen and a Mayor
all of whom must be residents of any part of the Town of Canton. During this
election the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes shall be
elected to serve a (4) year term and the next two Aldermen candidates receiving
the next highest votes shall serve a (2) year term. The Mayor shall be elected
for a (4) four year term. Thereafter, the citizens of the Town of Canton shall
biennially elect two Aldermen to serve (4) four year terms and a Mayor shall be
elected at alternate biennial elections to serve (4) four year term.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 5; Private Laws 1911, Ch. 178, Sec. 3; Private
Laws 1920 [Extra Session], Ch. 78, Sec. 5; Private Laws 1923, Ch. 204, Sec. 2;
Ord. of 8/27/13)
Stale Law Reference: The Uniform Municipal Election Law of 1971, as amended.
G.S. 163.279. et seq. aspersed" the above section and provides for holding
elections on other dates.
Section 2-3 Division of Town into wards; voting pieces and ballot boxes.
Before the next municipal election in May, one thousand nine hundred and
twenty-three, the board of aldermen of the Town of Canton shall by proper
ordinance divide the town into two wards or voting precincts, which division
shall conform with the township division of North and South Beaverdam through
the Town of Canton. And it shall be the duty of the board of aldermen of said
town to provide suitable voting places in each ward or precinct and ballot
boxes for the use of the qualified voters of each precinct in this and all
subsequent elections.
(Private Laws 1920 [Extra Session], Ch. 78, Sec. 6; Private Laws 1923, Ch. 204,
Sec. 3)
State Law Reference: Election district boundaries, G.S. 160A-23.
Section 2-4 Officers to have powers, rights and privileges conferred by general
law.
In addition to the powers hereinbefore given by the provisions of this act the
Mayor, Aldermen and other officers and agents of said Town of Canton are hereby
given all the powers, rights and privileges under chapter seventy-three,
entitled "Towns," of the Revisal of one thousand nine hundred and five of North
Carolina, and those otherwise provided by law.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 23)
Editorial Note: G.S. Ch. 160A has since superseded earlier statutes relating to
municipal corporations.
Section 2-5 Authority of Aldermen to abate nuisances and prescribe rules and
ordinances.
The Aldermen shall have the power to abate all nuisances and impose such fines
and penalties as may be necessary to abate them; they shall also have power to
prescribe any rules, regulations and ordinances for the good government of the
Town, not inconsistent with the laws of the State or the United States.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 19)
State Law Reference: General ordinance staking power, G.S. 160A-175.
Section 2-6 Town manager.
The Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton, North Carolina, shall appoint an
officer whose title shall be Town manager and who shall be the chief executive
officer and the head of the administrative branch of the Town government. The
Town manager shall be chosen by the Board of Aldermen solely on the basis of
his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his
actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the
duties of his office as hereinafter outlined. At the time of his appointment he
need not be a resident of the Town or State, but during his tenure of office he
shall reside within the Town. No person elected to membership on the Board of
Aldermen shall, subsequent to such election, be eligible for appointment as
Town manager until one year has elapsed following the expiration of the term
for which he was elected. The Town manager shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Aldermen and he shall receive such compensation as the Board shall fix
by ordinance. In case of the absence or disability of the manager, the Board
may designate a qualified administrative officer of the Town to perform the
duties of the manager during such absence or disability.
The Town manager shall be responsible to the Board of Aldermen for the proper
administration of all affairs of the Town. As chief administrator, the manager
shall have the power to appoint and remove all officers and employees in the
administrative service of the Town, except the Town attorney, auditor, clerk
and treasurer, who shall be appointed by and responsible to the Board of
Aldermen and subject to removal by the Board of Aldermen. It shall be the duty
of the Town manager to act as director of finance and purchasing agent; to
supervise the administration of the affairs of the Town; to see that the
ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Board of Aldermen and the laws
of the State are faithfully executed; to make such recommendations to the Board
of Aldermen concerning the affairs of the Town as he shall deem expedient; to
keep the Board of Aldermen advised of the financial condition and the future
financial needs of the Town; attend all meetings of the Board of Aldermen and
prepare and submit to the Board of Aldermen such reports as he may deem
expedient or as may be required of him by the Board of Aldermen; to perform all
other duties as may be required by the Board of Aldermen.
(Session Laws 1959, Ch. 2, Sec. 1)
Amendment Note: Section
2-4 was added to the Charter by Chapter 2 of the 1959 Session Laws, subject to
ratification, which occurred on March 24, 1959. Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Act
related to the special election for that purpose and have been omitted.
State Law Reference: Duties of the town manager, G.S. 160A-148.
CHAPTER 3
Financial Affairs and Taxation
Section
3-1   License taxes.
Section 3-1 License taxes.
In addition to the taxes provided for in the preceding section, the Aldermen of
said Town shall have power to levy and collect a privilege or license tax on
all subjects, trades, professions, etc., subject to such tax by the provisions
of chapter seventy-three, entitled "Towns," Revisal of one thousand nine
hundred and five of North Carolina.* The Aldermen of said Town shall meet on or
before the fifteenth day of May of each year hereafter and designate the
subjects, trades, professions, etc., liable for such privilege or license tax,
and levy and fix the amount of such tax and post the same by notice in said
Town at three or more public places within the corporate limits of said Town,
on or before the twentieth day of May of each year: Provided, however, that
they may meet at any time and levy such license tax on shows and other things
subject to tax of a transient nature: Provided further, that the Board of
Aldermen may exempt from this tax such concerts and exhibitions as are deemed
for the public good. All parties liable to the privilege and license tax as
aforesaid shall, on the day prescribed for listing State and county taxes,
render on oath to the clerk of the Town, or Mayor, in case no clerk shall be
appointed (and said Mayor is hereby constituted a commissioner of affidavits
for that purpose), a list of such property, subjects, trades, professions,
etc., liable to such license or privilege tax, under all rules and penalties
prescribed for listing State and county taxes, and if any person or persons
shall fail to render such list within the time prescribed for listing State and
county taxes, he or they shall pay double the tax assessed on anything for
which they are liable.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 8)
   Editorial Note: Section
3-1 (Section 8) originally contained a proviso at the end of the first
sentence, which proviso rusted to the sale of whiskey. The proviso was omitted
as obsolete and now covered by the State A.B.C. laws, G.S. 18A-1 et seq.
   "Preceding section" related to levy and rate of ad valorem and poll taxes.
It has been omitted, since It is obsolete and superseded by General Law, G.S.
103-271, et seq., and N.C. Constitution, Art. V, See. 1.
   *See now G.S. 160A.
   Editorial Note:   Sections 3-2 through 3-8 of the charter relating to
taxation have been deleted from this Code, since they are generally superseded
by the uniform tax collection procedures provided under the Machinery Act of
1939, as amended, G.S. 105-271 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
Public Works
Section
4-1   Establishment of streets and sidewalks and condemnation of land therefor.
Section
4-2   General powers and duties of May, or and Board relative to street
improvements.
Section
4-3   Construction, repair of sidewalks.
Section
4-4   Street assessments; generally.
Section
4-5   Same; Equalization; maps of improvements.
Section
4-6   Liens generally; payment schedules; appeals; failure to pay.
Section
4-7   Transfer of Hero.
Section
4-8   Control of street Improvement work; Town's liability for cost of street
Improvements.
Section
4-9   Powers and duties of Board relative to water and sewer systems.
Section
4-10   Regulation, establishment of cemeteries.
Section 4-1 Establishment of streets and sidewalks and condemnation of land
therefor.
The Board of Aldermen of the Town shall have power at any time, whenever by
them deemed necessary, to lay out and open new streets and sidewalks, or to
widen, enlarge, change, extend or discontinue any street or streets, sidewalk
or sidewalks, or any part thereof within the corporate limits of the said Town,
and shall have full power and authority to condemn, appropriate or use any land
or lands necessary for the purposes named in this section, upon making
reasonable compensation to the owner thereof; but in case the owner or owners
of said land sought to be condemned or appropriated for the public use by the
Aldermen and the Aldermen cannot agree as to the compensation, then it shall be
the duty of the Board of Aldermen forthwith to appoint three disinterested
freeholders, residents of said Town, not connected with the claimant either by
consanguinity or affinity, who shall forthwith go upon the premises and view
the same and assess the damages which such property-holder shall sustain,
taking into consideration the benefit which will accrue to such property from
the improvement, and report the same to the Board of Aldermen, who shall pay
the damages assessed, if any, and proceed to establish such street and
sidewalks. But before proceeding to view said premises and assess said damages
the appraisers chosen shall take the following oath before the Mayor of the
Town or some justice of the peace: "I, A.B., do solemnly swear (or affirm) that
I will faithfully and honestly discharge the duty of appraiser for which I have
been chosen and a true report make: So help me, God." In case either the owner
of the premises or the Aldermen of the Town shall be dissatisfied with the
changes assessed by the appraisers, either may appeal, without bond, from the
decision of said appraisers to the next term of the Superior Court of Haywood
County, when the case shall be tried by the court and jury, but the Judge may,
in his discretion, require either party to give bond when the case is taken on
appeal to the Superior Court: Provided, that the party to whom the damages are
awarded shall recover no more cost than a sum equal to the damages awarded by
the court and jury. When an appeal is taken by the landowner the case shall be
entitled "(here give the name of the landowner) v. the Town of Canton" and vice
versa, if the appeal be taken by the Town, and either party shall give five
days' written notice to the other of such appeal, and the appeal shall be
docketed by the Clerk of the Superior Court of Haywood County, under the same
rules and regulations as are prescribed by law for docketing appeals taken from
the judgment of justices of the peace of the county. If any landowners be
infants, idiots or lunatics they shall be represented by their guardian; but if
they have no general guardian a guardian may be appointed by the court, upon
the application of any one interested, to represent said infants, idiots or
lunatics in said appraisement and proceedings, and any sum of money realized
from lands condemned, as aforesaid, belonging to said infants, idiots or
lunatics, shall be invested or expended by the guardian as may be directed by
the court, subject to the approval of the Judge, as provided by law. And such
guardian shall have the same right of appeal from the judgment of the
appraisers as herein provided for other land-owners.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 15)
Editorial Note: Section
4-1 should be considered in Not of Session Laws 1947, Ch. 536, Sections 1.4,
codified herein as a Related Load Law, page L-1, which relates to the taking or
use of private property for public purposes.
State Law Reference: Exercise of eminent domain, G.S. 160A, Art. 11.
Section 4-2 General powers and dudes of Mayor and Board relative to street
improvements.
The Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton shall have full power and
authority, and it is hereby made their duty, to grade, pave, macadamize,
gutter, curb, and otherwise improve for travel and drainage the streets,
sidewalks, and alleys of said town, and put down crossings, curbings, and
cross-drains, and otherwise properly improve them : Provided, however, that the
nature and kind of material used in such improvement shall be left absolutely
to the discretion of the said Board of Aldermen in ,all cases.
(Private Laws 1917, Ch. 12, Sec. 2)
State Law Reference: General authority over streets, G.S. 160A-296; assessments
for improvements, G.S. 160A-216 et seq.
Section 4-3 Construction, repair of sidewalks.
Whenever any street in the said Town of Canton shall have been graded, in whole
or in part, including the sidewalks, it shall be incumbent upon the owner or
owners of land along said street, or part thereof, to pave, repave, or repair,
whenever in the opinion of the said Board it may be necessary, the sidewalk on
their own side respectively, the full width of said sidewalk as designated by
said Board of Aldermen across their respective fronts with such material and in
such manner as the Board of Aldermen of said Town shall direct. When such land
comers on two or more streets, the owner or owners thereof shall pave, repave,
or repair the sidewalks on such streets along his front and side, which the
Board of Aldermen may direct, at his own cost: Provided, however, the Town
shall in no wise be held chargeable with or responsible for any part of the
cost of paving, repaving, or repairing the sidewalk along any corner lot except
for a depth or side of fifty feet; the Board of Aldermen being hereby invested,
for the purpose of this proviso, with the power of determining in any case upon
what street any such corner lot fronts. Whenever any street shall have been
graded, the Board of Aldermen of said City shall, through the tax collector,
notify the owner or owners of the land fronting or cornering thereon to at once
pave, repave, or repair, as may be required, the sidewalks thereof as
hereinbefore provided, and should such owner or owners fail for fifteen days
after such notice to comply therewith, the said Board of Aldermen, unless it
shall extend the time therefor, shall cause said sidewalk to be built, repaved,
or repaired and charge the cost thereof against such lots respectively, and
cause the same to be entered by the tax collector in a book to be kept by him
for that purpose, immediately, and said tax collector shall forthwith proceed
to collect the same and account therefor in the same manner as for taxes of
said City [Town]. The amounts of such charges shall be and constitute, from the
commencement of the work for which they are charged, liens on the respective
lots upon which they are so charged, and if any of them is not paid on demand,
so much of the lot upon which it is charged as may be sufficient to pay the
same, with interest and costs, for the whole of such lot, shall be advertised
and sold by the tax collector of said City [Town] for the payment of the same
under the same rules and regulations and rights of redemption and in the same
manner as are prescribed in this act for the sale of real estate for failure to
pay street assessments as provided for in section six of this act [section
4-6 of this Charter).
(Private Laws 1917, Ch. 12, Sec. 3 )
Section 4-4 Street assessments; generally.
The said Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall assess two-thirds of the cost of the
grading, paving, macadamizing, constructing cross-drains, side-drains, curbs,
gutters, and all other necessary drains and crossings, and laying down any
sewer pipes in any street, or otherwise improving said roadways or streets
proper on the real estate abutting on such street, alley, or roadway, or
portion thereof so improved or repaired, assessing one-third' of such
improvement on the real estate abutting on each side of the street or part
thereof so improved or repaired, or in which a sewer line has been laid.
(Private Laws 1917, Ch. 12, Sec. 4; Private Laws 1919, Ch. 130, Sec. 1)
Section 4-5 Same; Equalization; naps of improvements.
To equalize the assessments on real estate for the purposes described in
section four of this act [section 4-4] the said Mayor and Board of Aldermen
shall estimate the total cost of such improvement made throughout the entire
length of such work and improvement, and shall then prorate the cost thereof on
the real estate abutting thereon in proportion to the frontage on the street or
portion thereof so improved, or in which a sewer line has been laid, and charge
to and assess upon the real estate upon each side of the street upon which said
work is done its pro rata share of one-third of the cost of such improvement
made under the provisions of this act [sections 4-2 through 4-81; Provided,
however, in order to avoid obstructing landowners in subdividing and selling
their property by mason of the liens hereby created upon the same, such land-
owners may subdivide their lands in such manner as they may see fit, and shall
file in the office of the tax collector a plat or subdivision, making the lots
fronting on the streets so paved or improved or in which a sewer line has been
laid, of any desired frontage, but not less than seventy-five feet in depth,
and the assessments made and the liens created by virtue hereof for street
improvements, or sewer line, shall hereafter affect and attach to such front
lots only, not less than seventy-five feet in depth; and where in such cases
any lands fronting on such improvements are so subdivided into lots, each of
said lots fronting on such improvements shall be and remain charged with Its
ratable proportion of said assessments and lien, according to its frontage.
Wherever the said Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall order paving or other
improvements to be made, or sewer line to be laid, on any street or any part
thereof in said City [Town], they shall have the same accurately surveyed and a
permanent grade thereof established, and cause an accurate map to be made of
the various lots and properties abutting on said street or the portion thereof
so proposed to be improved, showing the exact frontage of each lot, and also
the subdivisions, if any, and the said map shall be filed in the office of the
tax collector, to be subject to public inspection; and when the assessments and
liens herein provided for shall have been made upon the various lots and
properties on the street, the said tax collector shall write upon the said map
the amount assessed upon the same, and he shall keep a properly indexed record
book showing such assessments, liens, and date and amount of all payments made
on any of said assessments and liens.
(Private Laws 1917, Ch. 12, Sec. 5; Private Laws 1919, Ch. 130, Sec.)
Section 4-6 Liens generally; payment schedule; appeals; failure to pay.
The amount of the assessments for such street improvements as herein provided,
being estimated on each piece of real estate as above directed, shall be a lien
on such real estate, and the said Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall cause the
city [Town] engineer to make a survey and a report of the amount of the work
done and the cost thereof, upon what streets or portion thereof, showing the
name of each abutting owner thereon, the number of front feet of each lot and
the pro rata shares of such cost of such street improvement to be assessed
against such real estate, and upon the adoption and approval of such report the
liens authorized thereon shall become complete and operative, and shall be
paramount to all other liens on said real estate except the liens for taxes
thereon, and the said report shall be transcribed upon the minutes of the said
Board of Aldermen, and the amount of said liens and of said assessments against
all property abutting on such streets as aforesaid shall become due and payable
as follows to wit: one-third in thirty days after adoption of said report and
the balance in two equal annual payments, which deferred payments shall bear
interest at the rate of six per centum per annum from the date of the approval
of the said report until paid; and upon the filing of said report the said
Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall cause ten days’ notice to be given by
publication in some newspaper published in the Town of Canton, stating that
such report has been filed in the office of the tax collector, and that at the
first regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen to be held after the expiration
of the said ten days' notice the said Board of Aldermen would consider said
report, and if no valid objection be made thereto, the same would be adopted
and approved by said Board. Any owner of land affected by said lien or
assessments shall have the right to be heard concerning the same before the
said Board of Aldermen, by filing objections thereto in writing duly verified
by this oath, in the office of the Town clerk at least two days prior to the
first meeting of the Board, at which said report may be approved and confirmed,
but not thereafter, and any person so objecting to the confirmation and
approval of said report shall state in said objections, in writing, what part,
if any, of said assessment he admits to be lawfully chargeable to his said.
lands, and what part thereof he disputes; and said Board of Aldermen shall hear
said objections, and shall thereafter approve or confirm said report, and
overrule said objections or modify or correct said report in such manner as to
make the same correspond with the true intent and meaning of this act. Any
person who shall have fled objections as aforesaid to the confirmation of said
report shall have the right within five days after the approval or confirmation
of the same by the said Board of Aldermen, and not after that time, to appeal
from the decisions of the said Board of Aldermen to the next term of the
Superior Court of Haywood County, North Carolina, by serving upon said Town
notice in writing of his intention of so doing, and specify in said notice the
item or items in said report which he disputes, and by filing within said time
in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Haywood County a o written
undertaking in at least the sum of two hundred dollars ($200), with sufficient
sureties, to be justified before and approved by said clerk, to the effect that
the said appellant shall pay to the said Town all such costs and damages as it
may sustain by reason of such appeal, if the court shall finally render
judgment against such appellant. In case of an appeal as aforesaid, a copy of
said report, insofar as it affects the property of the appellant, as same was
approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, a copy of the objection of the
appellant thereto and of said notice duly certified by the tax collector, shall
constitute the record on appeal, and when filed in the office of the clerk of
the Superior Court of Haywood County the same shall be docketed on the civil
issue docket in the name of the person taking such appeal against the Town of
Canton as "an appeal from an assessment " and the cause shall then be deemed to
be at issue without any further plea on the part of said Town, but said Town
shall have the right to file a further answer or defense thereto, if it be so
advised, and said cause shall stand for trial at the next term of court
beginning more than ten days after the docketing of said appeal: Provided, that
if said appeal is not docketed and said bond is not filed by the said appellant
within ten days after the confirmation of said report, all right to prosecute
such appeal shall be thereby forfeited. And upon the trial of the issues
arising on such appeal, if all the issues be found in favor of the appellant,
the lien for said assessment shall be discharged.
If, however, the issues or any of them be found in favor of the Town of Canton
to any amount, and if it be thereby ascertained that the appellant is due to
the said Town any amount by virtue of the matters therein referred to, or that
said land is subject to a lien for said assessment, or any part thereof, then
the amount so found in favor of the Town of Canton, with interest thereon,
together with costs thereon accrued, which costs shall be assessed as costs in
other civil actions, shall be and continue a lien against the property upon
which the original assessment was placed from the date of the approval of add
report by the said Board of Aldermen, and shall be collected by the tax
collector. The adoption and approval of said report of the Town engineer by the
said Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall complete the said liens for the amount
therein stated against each of the separate pieces of real estate therein
described, and the same shall be due and payable as aforesaid; and in case of a
failure to pay either of the assessments or any installment thereon within
thirty days after maturity, then the whole thereof shall become immediately due
and payable, and an execution shall be issued by the city [Town] clerk to the
tax collector of said Town, who shall advertise the land upon which the said
assessments so in default have been made as aforesaid in the same manner as is
required by law for the sale of land for taxes under the provisions of the
Charter of said Town, and shall sell the said land, or a portion thereof, at
the door of the Town Hall in the Town of Canton, North Carolina, in the same
manner as he is required to sell real estate in said Town in case of failure to
pay the taxes due thereon, and shall give to the purchaser a receipt stating
the time the land was advertised, the date of sale, the name of the purchaser,
the price paid, the amount of the assessments due thereon, the costs of the
sale, the name of the owner or owners of the land sold, the interest in said
land so sold as aforesaid, and a description of the same, and the owner or
owners of the land so sold as aforesaid shall have twelve months within which
to redeem the said lands from such sale by paying to the tax collector of said
town the amounts for which the said lands were sold, together with twenty per
centum per annum additional thereto. In making such sale the tax collector
shall set up and offer for sale the whole of the real estate to be sold, and
the same, or the smallest interest thereof, shall be struck off to the person
who will pay the amount of the assessments due thereon, with all costs and
expenses for making the sale for the smallest interest in said land. For every
piece of real estate or part thereof advertised, said tax collector shall also
collect, in the same manner as such assessments are collected, the sum of one
dollar to defray the expenses of such advertisement. All such sales shall be
made to the highest bidder for cash, on any day of the week or month except
Sunday or legal holidays, and he shall be deemed the highest bidder who will
pay such assessments and expenses of sale for the smallest interest in said
real estate, and if no person shall bid enough to pay such assessments and
expenses, said tax collector shall bid on behalf of the Town of Canton the
amount of such assessments and expenses, and if no higher bid shall be made,
the same shall be struck off to the said Town of Canton; and in all cases where
real estate shall be struck off to the said town, as herein provided, the same
shall belong to the Town in fee simple unless redeemed in the manner prescribed
by law, and said tax collector shall immediately thereafter make a return to
the Board of Aldermen of said Town, by filing with the clerk of the said Town a
statement of the proceedings showing the purchaser or purchasers of said real
estate, and the amount or interest in such real estate or each part thereof
that was sold, which shall be entered by the Town clerk upon the minute books
of the said Board of Aldermen. If the lands so sold as aforesaid are not
redeemed within twelve months, then the tax collector of the said Town shall
make to the purchaser or purchasers a deed in fee simple for the said lands, or
the interest so sold as aforesaid, and the deed shall operate to convey to the
purchaser and his heirs the title to the said land in fee simple: Provided,
however, that the owner of any land subject to the liens and assessments
hereinbefore mentioned shall have the privilege of paying off all of said
assessments at any time before maturity, and upon such payment the said liens
shall be released and discharged.
(Private Laws 1917, Ch. 12, Sec. 6)
Section 4-7 Transfer of liens.
The said Mayor and Board of Aldermen are hereby authorized and empowered to
assign, sell, and transfer the said liens created herein and all sums owing
thereon, either absolutely or upon condition, to any person or persons in order
to enable them to raise mains [means] to carry into effect the provisions
hereof, and if any such liens shall be transferred as aforesaid and shall not
be paid to the owner when due, they shall be collected by the tax collector of
said Town in the same manner as other assessments hereinbefore provided for,
and the amount thereof, when collected, shall be paid by the said tax collector
to the owner or owners of said liens, less two per centum of the amount
actually collected by him, which shall be paid to the town treasurer to cover
the costs of such collection.
(Private Laws 1917, Ch. 12, Sec. 8)
Section 4-8 Control of street improvement work; Town's liability for cost of
street improvements.
The Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the said Town by their proper officers shall
have the exclusive control and management of the work of improving of said
streets, and the costs thereof shall be paid out of any funds belonging to the
said Town of Canton that may be available for such purpose, the said Town
itself being liable for one-third of the costs and expenses of improving the
street or roadway, or laying of the sewer line, assuming the liability
hereinbefore created.
(Private Laws 1917, Ch. 12, Sec. 7; Private Laws 1919, Ch. 130, Sec. 3)
Section 4-9 Powers and duties of Board relative to water and sewer systems.
Said Board of Aldermen shall from time to time lay and construct in said Town
of Canton such system of water, water pipes, sewerage and sewer pipes, and
extensions of same as it may deem advisable, and shall keep the same in proper
condition and repair with proper connections, and make all necessary provisions
for so doing, and shall control and regulate such system and every part
thereof, and may require the owner or owners of any improved lots in said Town
or any public street or alley where such- water or sewer pipes are to be laid
convenient and accessible to any lines of pipe to connect such lot with such
sewer and water pipes in the manner and places designated by the Board of
Aldermen, and said Board of Aldermen shall have the power and authority to
enforce such connections in any manner they may deem necessary, and upon the
failure of the owner or owners to so connect the same after having been given
ten days' notice, the said Board of Aldermen may enter upon such lot and make
such connections and charge the cost thereof against said lot and such costs or
charge shall be and become a lien on said property, the same shall be placed in
the hands of the tax collector for collection, and, if the same is not paid
promptly, then the tax collector shall advertise and sell said property to
satisfy such lien and charge in the same manner as prescribed by law for the
sale of property for unpaid taxes: Provided, however, that the said Board of
Aldermen may, in its discretion, extend the time of payment to such time as
they may deem proper, and shall have the right to charge interest at not more
than six per cent (6%) from the day of the commencement of said work.
(Private Laws 1911, Ch. 178, Sec. 8)
State Law Reference: Public enterprise services generally, G.S. 160A-311 et
seq.
Section 4-10 Regulation, establishment of cemeteries.
The Aldermen of said Town shall by ordinance regulate and govern the cemetery
included within the corporate limits of the Town, and it shall be their duty to
lay off the unoccupied portion of said ground into suitable lots, with walks
and drives laid out to the best advantage, not interfering with the graves
already in said cemetery, and may by ordinance prohibit the digging of a grave
or burial in any other place than that allotted for graves. Said Board of
Aldermen may, if they elect to do so, discontinue the use of the present
cemetery and purchase the necessary land for a new cemetery for the use of the
Town and locality, either within or without the corporate limits of said Town,
on such terms as may be agreed upon between said Board of Aldermen and the
land-owner or owners. But in case such land cannot be purchased on terms
satisfactory to the Board of Aldermen of said Town, then, and in that event,
the right is hereby given to the said Town of Canton to enter upon the land
needed for such cemetery and survey the same, and proceed to condemn and pay
for the same, as provided by chapter sixty-one, entitled "Railroads." Revisal
of one thousand nine hundred and five of North Carolina, or as otherwise
provided by law: Provided, that the petition for condemning such land shall set
forth the location and number of acres to be condemned for the cemetery. When
said land shall be acquired by such procedure and paid for, the title to the
same shall vest in the Town in fee-simple for the burial purposes aforesaid,
and if deemed necessary, the court may, upon application, or a suit instituted
by said Town against the party whose land has been condemned for the purposes
aforesaid, compel such party or parties to execute and deliver to the Board of
Aldermen of said Town a deed in fee-simple for such property. The said Aldermen
shall have the full control and management of said cemetery, and may cause the
same to be surveyed into lots for burial purposes, and sell the same for burial
purposes and regulate the manner of burial, and lay out drives and walks and
otherwise regulate said cemetery: Provided, that the proceeds realized from the
sale of said burial lots shall be used in keeping up said cemetery, and the
treasurer of said Town shall keep a separate account of all funds realized from
such sales and expended on said cemetery.
(Private Laws 1907, Ch. 90, Sec. 16)
State Law Reference: Municipal cemeteries generally, G.S. 160A-341 et seq.
CHARTER DISPOSITI0N TABLE
                                                           Sec.
Priv. L. 1907, Ch.   1,2,3             Incorporation, Town 1-1,
90                                     Limits              1-2,
                                                           1-3
                                                           Sec.
Priv. L. 1907, Ch.                     General             2-1,
90                   4,5,13,19         Administration      2-2,
                                                           2-4,
                                                           2-5
Priv. L. 1907, Ch.   15                Streets and         Sec.
90                                     Sidewalks           4-1
Priv. L. 1907, Ch.   18                Powers of Manuals   Obsolete; superseded
90                                                         by General Law
Priv. L. 1907, Ch.   8, 9, 10, 11, 12,                     Sec.
90                   13, 14            Taxation            3-1, 3-2, 3-4, 3-5,
                                                           3-6, 3-7, 3-8
Priv. L. 1907, Ch.   16                Cemeteries          Sec.
90                                                         4-10
Priv. L. 1911, Ch.   9 (a)             Taxation            Sec. 3-3
178
Priv. L. 1911, Ch.   15 (b)            Water and Sewer     Sec.
178                                                        4-9
Priv. L. 1911, Ch.   3                 Town Limits         Sec.
178                                                        1-3
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   3                 Town Limits         Sec.
56                                                         1-3
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   3                 Town Limits         Sec.
56                                                         1-3
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   15 (a)            Street Improvements Sec.
12                                                         4-2
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   15 (b)            Sidewalk            Sec.
12                                     Improvements        4-3
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   15 (c)            Street Assessments  Sec.
12                                                         4-4
Priv. L. 1919, Ch.   15 (c)            Street Assessments  Sec.
30                                                         4-4
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   15 (d)            Equalization of     Sec.
12                                     Assessments         4-5
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   15 (e)            Liens               Sec.
12                                                         4-6
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   15 (f)            Liens               Sec.
12                                                         4-7
Priv. L. 1917, Ch.   15 (g)            Street Improvement  Sec.
12                                     Costs               4-8
Priv. L. 1919, Ch.   15 (d)            Equalization of     Sec.
130                                    Assessments         4-5
Priv. L. 1919, Ch.   15 (g)            Street Improvements Sec.
130                                    costs               4-5
Priv. L. 1920 (Extra 3                 Town Limits         Sec.
Session) Ch. 78                                            1-3
                                                           Sec.
Priv. L. 1920 (Extra 4, 5, 5 (a)       General             2-1,
Session) Ch. 78                        Administration      2-2,
                                                           2-3
                                                           Sec.
Priv. L. 1923, Ch.   4, 5, 5 (a)       General             2-1,
204                                    Administration      2-2,
                                                           2-3
Priv. L. 1929, Ch. 9 3                 Town Limits         Sec.
                                                           1-3
Public-Local Laws,   3                 Town Limits         Sec.
1939, Ch. 543                                              1-3
Priv. L. 1941, Ch.   3                 Town Limits         Sec.
376                                                        1-3
Sess. L. 1943, Ch.   3                 Town Limits         Sec.
427                                                        1-3
Sess. L. 1945, Ch.   3                 Town Limits         Sec.
268                                                        1-3
Sess. L. 1959, Ch. 2 4 (a)             Town Manager        Sec.
                                                           2-6
 
RELATED LOCAL LAWS
SESSION LAWS 1947
CHAPTER 536
Private Property for Public Purposes
Section 1 Taking or using private property for public purposes.
   (a)   The Town of Canton, through its governing body, is authorized and
empowered to enter upon the property of any person, firm, or corporation within
the corporate limits of Canton as now constituted, or may be hereafter
constituted, for the purpose of surveying and inspecting said Town for streets,
sidewalks, water lines, sewer lines, or for any other public purpose.
   (b)   If the Town of Canton is unable to agree with the property owner, or
owners, as to the amount of damages sustained, or to be sustained, by reason of
the taking or using of property for the purposes herein set forth, or if the
owners cannot immediately convey such rights to the Town of Canton, then said
Town is authorized and empowered to proceed to make such improvements.
   (c)   After the Improvements, as herein specified, have been made by the
Town of Canton, the property owner, or owners, may file a claim with the clerk
of the Town of Canton for damages sustained; and if the Town and the property
owner, or owners, are unable to agree upon the amount of said claim then the
Board of Aldermen of said Town, shall, within thirty days after the filing of
said claim, appoint three disinterested freeholders who are residents of said
Town who shall go upon the premises and view the. same and hear the contentions
of the parties and assess the damages accrued to such property, taking into
consideration the benefits which have accrued to the property from the
improvements and report the same to the Board of Aldermen who shall pay the
damages assessed, if any.
   (d)   If either the property owner, or owners, or the Town of Canton is
dissatisfied with the report of said commissioners, then either may appeal to
the Superior Court of Haywood County upon serving written notice of such appeal
within twenty days from the filing of the statement of facts which will
constitute the complaint; and the appellee shall file a statement of facts
which will constitute the answer, and no other pleadings shall be necessary in
said action, unless required by the Court; and the same shall be tried in the
Superior Court in the same manner and to the same effect as any other civil
action, together with the right to appeal to the Supreme Court.
(Session Laws 1947, Ch. 536, Paras. 1-4)
State Law Reference: Exercise of power of eminent domain, G.S. 160A-240 et seq.
SESSION LAWS 1943
CHAPTER 154
Section 1 Jurisdiction of Police Officers.
The police officers of the Town of Canton shall have the same jurisdiction and
powers upon properties of the Town of Canton outside of the corporate limits of
said Town as they have within said corporate limits, and shall have the power
to transport any person arrested for an offense upon said properties to the
municipal jail of Canton or to the common jail of Haywood County to the same
effect as if said person or persons were being transported wholly within the
corporate limits of said Town.
(Session Laws 1943, Ch. 154, Par. 2)
State Law Reference: Jurisdiction of policemen, G.S. 160A.286, G.S. 15A402.
CHAPTER 256
Section 1 Regulation of fares charged by for hire vehicles.
The Hoard of Aldermen of the Town of Canton, Haywood County, is authorized to
designate the amount that persons operating vehicles in said Town for hire
shall charge for the transportation of passengers and property from one point
to another within the corporate limits of said Town and for a distance of one
mile beyond and outside of said corporate limits by establishing a uniform rate
of compensation for each class of vehicles, and may classify the same according
to the use made thereof, and said compensation may be changed from time to time
by the governing body of the Town of Canton.
State Law Reference: General authority to regulate taxicabs, G.S. 160A 304.
Section 2 Same; exception.
Provided, this act shall not apply to vehicles under the jurisdiction of the
Utilities Commission of North Carolina.
Section 3 Town may adopt rules and regulations on fares by ordinance.
In order to effectuate the regulation of the prices charged by persons
operating for hire vehicles in the Town of Canton, the governing body of said
Town may, by ordinance, adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with
this Act, as may be proper to properly regulate said charges.
Section 4 Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any ordinance passed pursuant to this
Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined or imprisoned or both in
the discretion of the court.
PRIVATE LAWS 1935
CHAPTER 131
SESSION LAWS 1947
CHAPTER 644
Section 1 Conduct by Board of Elections; composition, appointment, etc., of
Board of Elections.
All municipal elections, including all special elections, held in the Town of
Canton shall be conducted by (a) municipal Board of Elections consisting of
three persons who shall be electors of the Town of Canton, but not more than
two members shall be of the same political party. The members of the present
Board of Elections appointed by the Board of Aldermen of said Town shall remain
in office until their terms expire, they resign or become incapacitated or
disqualified; and said members of the Board of Elections shall be appointed by
the Board of Aldermen for a period of six years each, or in case of filling a
vacancy, for the unexpired term. The Board of Aldermen of said Town shall
designate the chairman of said Board of Elections. The terms of the members of
said Board of Elections, including the ones now in office (except those whose
terms may expire prior to the election in May, 1947) shall not expire until the
first day of June following each regular municipal election and said members to
be staggered so that one member will be appointed following the first day of
June on every regular municipal election year. In case of the absence or
disability of any member of said Board, the other two members shall have the
same power as the full Board; and in case the Board of Aldermen should fail to
make an appointment, the members of the Election Board shall serve until their
successors are appointed and qualified.
(Private Laws 1935, Ch 131 Par 1; Session Laws 1947 Ch. 644, Par. 1)
State Law Reference: Uniform Municipal Election Law of 1971, as amended, G.S.
163-279 et seq.
Section 2 General powers and duties of Board of Elections and its appointees.
The municipal Board of Elections shall perform the duties and functions, and
shall be vested with the same power and authority in the conduct of municipal
elections, as the county Board of Elections is vested with under the provisions
of the general election laws of the State of North Carolina, and all
registrars, bailiffs, clerks and other appointees of the municipal Board of
Elections shall perform the same duties and functions and be vested with the
same power and authority in the conduct of a municipal election as is vested in
similar officers under the general state law for the conduct of general
elections.
(Private Laws 1935, Ch. 131, Par. 2 )
Section 3 Payment of election expanses; compensation of Board of Elections.
The expenses of conducting any municipal election, including the compensation
of the members of the municipal Board of Elections shall be paid out of the
city (Town) treasury of the Town of Canton, upon requisition of the chairman of
the municipal Board of Elections, and the municipal Board of Elections shall
receive for their compensation, for each election held by them, as follows:
chairman, one dollar, and each member other than the chairman, one dollar.
(Private Laws 1935, Ch. 131, Par. 3)
Editor’s note: State law, G.S. 163-280(e). authorizes the Town Board to a
establish by ordinance the compensation of the Board of Elections.
SESSION LAWS 1961
CHAPTER 37
Employees' Retirement Fund
Section 1 Official name.
The retirement or pension fund which may hereafter be established by the
governing body of the Town of Canton under the provisions of this Act [Article)
shall be known, and is hereafter referred to, as Canton Employees Retirement
Fund.
Section 2 Authority to establish; authorized benefits; membership;
contributions by Town generally; administrative expenses.
The governing body of the Town of Canton is hereby authorized and empowered to
establish, by ordinance, a retirement fund which provides for the payment of
benefits to employee members of the Canton Employees Retirement Fund, or to
their beneficiaries, in the following cases:
   (1)   Retirement because of age,
   (2)   Disability,
   (3)   Death.
Membership shall include such officers and employees of the Town of Canton as
shall be so designated in the ordinance. The Town of Canton shall contribute to
the Canton Employees Retirement Fund in such amounts as shall be stated in the
ordinance, in order to meet the liabilities accruing against such fund because
of personal service rendered to said town by such members after the
establishment of such fund: Provided, however, that the ordinance may provide
benefits which are based, partly or entirely, upon personal services rendered
to the Town of Canton prior to the establishment of said fund, and the
municipality may contribute the entire cost of benefits based on any such prior
service. The expense of administering the fund shall be paid as designated in
the ordinance, and the governing body of said town shall provide and
appropriate each year sufficient revenue to cover the expense of the
administration.
Cross Reference: The ordinance enacted pursuant to the authority granted by
this section is included in the Code of Ordinances as section
2-5001 et seq.
Section 3 Maintenance on solvent actuarial reserve basis.
The Canton Employees Retirement Fund shall be maintained on a solvent actuarial
reserve basis for all benefits beginning at the date of the inauguration of the
fund, excepting the present value of benefits based on prior service.
Section 4 Contribution to cover prior service benefits; retirement board or
board of trustees.
The contribution required to cover the cost of benefits based on prior service
shall be sufficient to fund the liability for such prior service in not more
than forty (40) years from the date of the establishment of such fund. The
ordinance may provide for the appointment or election of a retirement board or
board of trustees, and for the delegation to such board of such powers and
duties as may be deemed necessary to carry out the intent and purpose for which
said fund is established. If such retirement board or board of trustees is
provided for by ordinance, the said board shall consist of a member or members
of the governing body of the Town of Canton, an employee or employees entitled
to participate in said fund, and one or more citizens of the State of North
Carolina not officially connected with the governing body of any municipality
or entitled to participate in the benefits of said fund.
Section 5   Contracts for benefit payments, administrative services, etc.;
investments.
The Town of Canton is authorized to provide for the payment of one or more of
the benefits enumerated in Section 2 of this Act [section 63 of this article]
by contracting with the governing body of any other municipality or
municipalities within the state, with the United States Government, or with
state departments or other competent agencies, or may contract with any
insurance company, person or other corporation for the performance of any
service in connection with the establishment of said fund, or for the
investment, care or administration of said fund, or for any other service
relating thereto. The Town of Canton, or any governing body, agency, insurance
company, person or other corporation contracting with the Town of Canton for
the investment, care or administration of said fund may invest and reinvest the
funds constituting the said fund in one or more of the types of securities or
other investments authorized by Section 58-79 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, as heretofore or hereafter amended, and by other state law, for the
investment of assets of domestic life insurance companies.
Section 6 Contributions to other pension or retirement funds.
After the effective date of the ordinance which may hereafter be adopted under
and by virtue of the authority of this Act [article], the Town of Canton shall
not contribute to any pension or retirement fund except under the provisions
contained in said ordinance, and in accordance therewith. Provided, however,
nothing in this Act shall prohibit the Town of Canton from providing or
continuing to provide Old Age and Survivor's Insurance coverage, or Social
Security coverage, for its officers and employees as the same may be authorized
by Federal and State laws.
SESSION LAWS 1967
CHAPTER 671
Section 4 Board of Alcoholic Control.
If the operation of a Town liquor control store is authorized under the
provisions of this Act, the Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton shall
immediately create a Town Board of Alcoholic Control to be composed of a
chairman and two other members who shall be well known for their character,
ability, and business acumen. Said Board shall be known and designated as "The
Town of Canton Board of Alcoholic Control." The chairman of said Board shall be
designated by the governing body of the Town and shall serve for his first term
a period of three years, and one member shall serve for his first term a period
of two years, and the other member shall serve for a period of one year; and
all terms shall begin with the date of their appointment, and after the said
term shall have expired, their successors in office shall serve for a period of
three years. Their successors, or any vacancy occurring in the Board, shall be
named or filled by the governing body of the Town.
Editor’s Note: Sections 1,2 and 3 are temporary provisions relating to
authorizing the election and conduct thereof. Since the election was held in
the Town and the proposition ratified, these first three sections are of no
permanent reference value and are thus not codified.
Section 5 Same; powers and duties.
The Town of Canton Board of Alcoholic Control shall have all of the powers and
duties imposed by Section 18-45 of the General Statutes on county boards of
alcoholic control and shall be subject to the powers and authority of the State
Board of Alcoholic Control the same as county boards of alcoholic control as
provided in Section 18-39 of the General Statutes. Provided, G. S. 18-45 (15)
shall not apply to the Town board of alcoholic control. The Town of Canton
Board of Alcoholic Control and the operation of any Town liquor store
authorized under the provisions of this Act shall be subject to and in
pursuance with the provisions' of Article 3 of Chapter 18 of the General
Statutes, except to the extent which the same may be in conflict with the
provisions of this Act. Wherever the word "county" board of alcoholic control
appears in said Article, it shall include. Town of Canton Board of Alcoholic
Control.
State Law Reference: Chapter 18 has since been superseded by Chapter 18A.
Section 6 Distribution of revenues.
After deducting from the gross revenues the amount required to pay all salaries
and operating expenses, and after retaining a sufficient and proper working
capital, the amount to be determined by the Board, the Town of Canton Board of
Alcoholic Control shall allocate and disburse, as determined by quarterly
audit, the net profits as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Ten per cent (10%) to be used by the Town Board of Alcoholic Control
for law enforcement. Any alcoholic beverage control law enforcement officers
appointed by the Town of Canton shall have county-wide jurisdiction, and the
same powers and authority within the county as other peace officers.
   B.   Five per cent (5%) to be used by the Town Board of Alcoholic Control,
in its discretion, for education as to the effects of the use of alcoholic
beverages and for rehabilitation of alcoholics.
   C.   The remaining net profits shall be distributed as follows:
      (1)   Sixty-four per cent (64%) to the General Fund of the Town of
Canton, to be used for any public or governmental purposes for which it is
authorized to expend tax or nontax revenues.
      (2)   Thirty-six per cent (36%) to the General Fund of Haywood County,
one half of which shall be allocated to the Board of Education of Haywood
County for school purposes, and one half which may be used by the County for
any public or governmental purposes for which the County is authorized to
expend tax or nontax revenues.
DIVISION II
CODE OF GENERAL ORDINANCES
PART 1 Introduction
CHAPTER 1
Use of the Code and Penalties
Section
1-1001   Definitions and rules of construction.
Section
1-1002   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
Section
1-1003   Section designations.
Section
1-1004   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances
Section
1-1006   Severability of parts of Code.
Section
1-1007   Damaging ordinances prohibited.
Section 1-1001 Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions and rules of construction shall be observed unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the Board of Aldermen or the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   Board The words "the Board" shall mean the Board of Aldermen of the Town of
Canton.
   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   County. The word "county" shall mean the County of Haywood, in the State of
North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   Mayor. The words "the Mayor" shall mean the Mayor of the Town of Canton.
   Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular number.
   Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in
such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words
"affirm" and "affirmed".
   Owner. The word "owner" applied to a building or land, shall include any
part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
   Person. The word, "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership
association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an
individual.
   Personal property. The words "personal property" include every species of
property except real property as herein defined.
   Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next
before and next after respectively.
   Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
   Real property. Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the
curb line and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   Signature, subscription. The words "signature" or "subscription" include a
mark when the person cannot write.
   State. The word "State" shall be construed to mean the State of North
Carolina except as otherwise provided.
   Street. The word "street" shall mean and include any public way, road,
highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, land, viaduct, or bridge
and the approaches thereto within the Town.
   Tenant, occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant" applied to a building or
land shall include any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building
or land whether alone or with others.
   Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   Town. The words "the Town" shall mean the Town of Canton in Haywood County,
North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   Writing. The words "writing" and "written" shall include printing and any
other mode of representing words and letters.
   Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law Reference: Rules of construction, G.S. 12-3; Computation of time,
G.S. 1-593.
Section 1-1002 Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as
ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included herein, shall be considered
as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 1-1003 Section designations.
The headings of the several sections of this Code printed in bold-face type are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the
section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of
such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Section 1-1004 Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the previous
ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
Section 1-1005 Criminal penalty, not exclusive remedy; continuing violations.
   (a)   In accordance with G.S. 160A-75, and unless this Code of Ordinances
provides otherwise, violation of any provision hereof shall be a misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. 14-4, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding fifty
dollars ($50.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding thirty (30) days. An
ordinance may provide by express statement that the maximum fine or term of
imprisonment to be imposed for its violation shall be some figure or number of
days less than the maximum penalties prescribed by G.S. 14.4.
   (b)   By express statement, an ordinance contained herein may provide for
its enforcement by other remedies, as authorized in G.S. 160-175, including the
imposition of civil fines, the ordering of appropriate equitable relief,
including injunctions, or a combination of remedies.
   (c)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day's continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
Editorial Note: G.S. 160A-175, authorizing municipalities to employ alternate
remedies in the enforcement of local ordinances, is set out In the Related
State Laws portion of this code. See page S-1 and following.
Section 1-1006 Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Aldermen that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable
and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise Invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs
and sections of this Code since the same would have been enacted by the Board
without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or invalid
phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Section 1-1007 Damaging ordinances prohibited.
No person shall tear or deface any of the Town ordinances.
PART 2 Government and Administration
CHAPTER 1
Board of Aldermen
ARTICLE A General
Section 2-1001 through 2-1010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Meetings
Section
2-1011   Regular meeting; time and place.
Section
2-1012   Special meeting; call, notice.
Section
2-1013   Adjourned meetings.
Section
2-1014   Presiding officer.
Section
2-1015   Quorum.
Section
2-1016   Rules at procedure.
Section
2-1017   Procedure for addressing Board.
Section 2-1018 through 2-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE C Ordinances
Section
2-1021   Effective date.
Section
2-1022   Ordinance confined to one subject.
Section
2-1023   Official copy.
Section
2-1024   Ordinance book.
ARTICLE A
General
Section 2-1001 through 2-1010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Meetings
Section 2-1011 Regular meetings, time and place.
   The Board of Aldermen shall hold regular meetings on the second and fourth
Tuesday of each month at 5:80 p.m. in the Municipal Building.
(Code 1968, Sec 2.8) (Amended by Ord. of 1/31/81)
State Law Reference: Organizational meeting of Board, G.S. 160A-68
Section 2-1012 Special meetings, call, notice.
   A special meeting of the Board may be called according to the procedures for
calling special meetings set out in the General Statute.
State Law Reference: Special meetings, G.S. 160A-71. See page S-1 et seq. for
reprinted laws.
Section 2-1013 Adjourned meetings.
   Any regular or special meeting of the Board and any adjourned meeting
thereof may adjourn to such time prior to the next regular meeting date as may
be fixed by the Board.
(Code 1966, Sec. 2-10)
Section 2-1014 Presiding officer.
   The Mayor shall preside at every meeting of the Board, but he shall have no
vote, except in the event of a tie vote by the Board of Aldermen, in which use
the Mayor shall cast a vote to break the tie. In the absence of the Mayor, the
Mayor Pro Tom shall preside and, in the absence of both, some member of the
Board may be designated by the members present as presiding officer for that
meeting.
(Code 1966, Sec. 2-11)
State Law Reference: Mayor to preside ova meeting; voting right, G.S. 160A-69.
Section 2-1015 Quorum.
   Two (2) members of the Board shall normally constitute a quorum. If a quorum
fails to attend, the meeting will stand adjourned until such time as shall be
agreed upon by the majority of the members present.
(Code 1966, Sec. 2-12)
Star Law Reference: Majority of the actual membership of the governing body
constitutes a quorum, G.S. 160A-74.
Section 2-1016 Rules of procedure.
   Except where otherwise provided by law of ordinance the procedure of the
Board shall be governed by Roberts' Rules of Order.
(Code 1966, Sec. 2-13)
Section 2-1017 Procedure for addressing Board.
   (a)   Pursuant to North Carolina G.S. 160A-71 (c), in the interest of the
general public and in order ot expedite the handling of business matters and
any other matters, a uniform procedure is enacted for anyone wishing to address
the Board on a matter of public or primate concern.
   (b)   Such procedure is as follows: Any citizen wishing to address the Mayor
and/or Board of Alderman on a matter of public or private concern shall submit
to the Town Manager, at least five (5) days prior to the next ensuing meeting,
a written statement containing a brief explanation of the matter with a written
list of any requests for action to be taken by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. of 5/9/78)
Section 2-1018 through 2-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Ordinances
Section 2-1021 Effective date.
   All ordinances shall be effective aftger the ratification thereof except
ordinances specifying some other effective date or ordiances required by State
law to be effective only after having met specific date requirements.
Section 2-1022 Ordinances confined to one subject.
   All ordinances shall be confirmed to one subject except appropriation
ordinances which shall be confined to the subject of appropriation only.
Section 2-1023 Official copy.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the clerk shall be known as an official
copy of any ordinance for the Town. All ordinances or a true copy thereof shall
be inserted in the Code in the proper chapter.
State Law Reference: Pleading and proving Town ordinances, G.S. 160A-79.
Section 2-1024 Ordinance book.
   The clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, until it is codified in
this Code, in an ordinance book seperate and apart from the Board's minute
book. The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed and maintained for
public inspection in the office of the clerk.
State Law Reference: For similar requirements on the oridnance book, see G.S.
160A-78.
CHAPTER 2
Administrative Organization
ARTICLE A Administrative Offices
Section
2-2001   Town manager.
Section
2-2002   Same; relationship of Board relative to employees.
Section
2-2003   Town clerk; appointment and term.
Section
2-2004   Clerk required to give bond.
Section
2-2005   Town attorney; appointment and term.
Section
2-2006   Duties of attorney generally.
Section
2-2007   Town treasurer; appointment and term.
Section
2-2008   Bond of treasurer.
Section
2-2009   Duties of treasurer generally.
ARTICLE B Other Administrative Provisions
(Reserved)
ARTICLE A
Administrative Offices
Section 2-2001 Town manager.
   The Town manager shall:
      (1)   Be authorized to inspect at any reasonable time all books and
records pertaining to Town affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the
Town;
      (2)   Settle any dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officers of the Town after consultation with the Town attorney;
      (3)   Have the power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which
is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that
duty; and
      (4)   Perform such other duties as requested by official action of the
Board.
Section 2-2002 Same; relationship of Board relative to employees.
   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Board and its members shall deal with
that portion of the administrative service, for which the manager is
responsible, though the manager, and neither the Board nor any member thereof
shall give an order to any Town employee in the administrative service of the
Town other than the Town manager, relating to any matter in the line of his
employment. Any violation of the provisions of this section by a member of the
Board shall be a misdemeanor, conviction of which shall immediately forfeit the
office of the member so convicted.
(Code 1966, Sec. 2-1)
   Cross Reference: For charter Provisions on the manager, see Section
2-4 thereof.
   State Law Reference: Powers and duties of the manager., G.S. 160A-148.
Section 2-2003 Town clerk; appointment and term.
   The Board dull appoint a Town clerk who shall hold office for a term of two
years, unless sooner removed by the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-21)
   Cross Reference: Authority of board to appoint clerk, Charter, Section
2-1.
Section 2-2004 Clerk required to give bond.
   The clerk shall be required to give bond in such sum as the Board may
designate for the faithful performance of his duties and for the faithful
accounting for all the funds belonging to the Town that may come into his hands
by virtue of his office.
It shall be the duty of the Town clerk to:
      (1)   Act as secretary to the Board.
      (2)   Keep a true record of all the proceedings of the Board.
      (3)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided
for that purpose.
      (4)   Act as custodian for all the books, papers, records and journals of
the Town.
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him by law or by
the Board.
   State Law Reference: Board to require bonds of certain officers, G.S. 160A-
65; duties of clerk specified, G.S. 160A-171.
Section 2-2005 Town attorney; appointment and term.
   The Board shall appoint a Town attorney who shall hold office for a term of
two years, unless sooner removed by the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-31)
Section 2-2006 Duties of attorney generally.
   It shall be the duty of the attorney to:
   (1)   Prosecute and defend all suits against and on behalf of the Town.
   (2)   Advise the manager, Board, Mayor and all other officers of the Town in
regard to matters connected with the Town's business.
   (3)   Attend all meetings of the Board.
   (4)   Prepare all deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other instruments that
may be required for the proper conduct of the Town's business.
   (5)   Draw all ordinances granting franchises.
   (6)   Approve all proposed ordinances as to form before their introduction,
but his failure to so approve as to form any ordinance duly passed by the Board
shall not impair its validity.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-32)
State Law Reference: Town attorney, G.S. 160A-1 73.
Section 2-2007 Town treasurer; appointment and term.
   The Board shall appoint a Town treasurer who shall hold office for a term of
two (2) years, unless sooner removed by the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-41)
Section 2-2008 Bond of treasurer.
   The treasurer, before entering into the duties of his office, shall execute
a bond payable to the Town in such sum as may be fixed by the Board,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office and the
proper accounting of all funds that may come into his hands by virtue of his
office.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-42)
Section 2-2009 Duties of treasurer generally.
   It shall be the duty of the treasurer to:
      (1)   Receive and keep all moneys and funds belonging to the Town that
are paid into the Town treasury.
      (2)   Keep an accurate account of all funds which he shall receive on
behalf of the Town.
      (3)   Give a receipt for all moneys received by him.
      (4)   Render annually, and at such other times as the board may require,
an accurate statement of receipts and disbursements.
      (5)   Acknowledge and pay only such warrants as have been approved by the
Town accountant.
      (6)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him by law or by
the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-43)
ARTICLE B
Other Administrative Provisions
CHAPTER 3
Departmental Operating Organization
Section
2-3001   Town departments.
Section 2-3001 Town departments.
The operating organization of the Town, according to departments, shall be as
provided on the following page:
[Click here to view organizational chart]
(Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)
CHAPTER 4
Financial Administration
ARTICLE A Purchasing
Section
2-4001   Disbursement of funds.
Section 2-4002 through 2-4010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Privilege License Taxes
Section
2-4011   Definitions.
Section
2-4012   Construction of this article.
Section
2-4013   Levy of tax.
Section
2-4014   Who must pay tax.
Section
2-4015   Period of license; due date.
Section
2-4016   Proration of tax.
Section
2-4017   Refunds.
Section
2-4018   Separate businesses.
Section
2-4019   Computation of tax based on gross receipts.
Section
2-4020   Exemptions.
Section
2-4021   Application for license.
Section
2-4022   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license.
Section
2-4023   Unqualified applicants; right to a conference.
Section
2-4024   Tax Collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite.
Section
2-4025   Amount of tax disputed.
Section
2-4026   Revocation of license.
Section
2-4027   Form and contents of license.
Section
2-4028   Assignments.
Section
2-4029   Changes in the business conducted by the licensee during the tax year.
Section
2-4030   Tax Collector to furnish duplicates.
Section
2-4031   Record of conferences.
Section
2-4032   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee.
Section
2-4033   Duty to determine whether tax due.
Section
2-4034   Tax Collector to investigate.
Section
2-4035   Duty to keep books.
Section
2-4036   Duty to permit inspection.
Section
2-4037   Duty to post license.
Section
2-4038   Notice of deficiency.
Section
2-4039   Request for a conference.
Section
2-4040   Deficiency to become final.
Section
2-4041   Conference held.
Section
2-4042   Collection of deficiency.
Section
2-4043   Enforcement of this article.
Section
2-4044   Taxable business categories and fees.
ARTICLE C Tax on Retail Short-Term Lease or Rental of Motor Vehicles.
Section
2-4051   Tax established.
Section
2-4052   Administration.
Section
2-4053   Payment of taxes and filing of returns.
Section
2-4054   Penalties.
ARTICLE D Disposal of Personal Property
Section
2-4061   Procedure.
ARTICLE A
Purchasing
Section 2-4001 Disbursement of funds.
   (a)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the Town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged. No check or draft of the Town shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the Finance Officer as follows:
   "This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act."
   (b)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the finance officer's certificate as follows:
   “This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
   State Law Reference: Preaudit of disbursements required, G.S. 159-28, as
amended.
   Cross Reference: Town Manager to serve as purchasing agent, Charter, Section
2-6.
Section 2-4002 through 2-4010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Privilege License Taxes
Section 2-4011 Definitions.
   Wherever in this article the following words are used, such words shall,
unless the context requires otherwise, be deemed to have the following
meanings:
   (1)   Person. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm, or other legal entity.
   (2)   Business. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business, and
franchise taxed under this article.
   (3)   Seasonal business. A business that is conducted for profit six months
out of the year or less.
   (4)   Wholesale. The sale of goods, usually in quantities, by a supplier to
a business which will in turn retail the goods.
   (5)   Retail. The direct sale of goods or services, usually in small
quantities, to an individual consumer.
   (6)   Schedule B. Refers to Schedule B of the North Carolina Revenue Act
(G.S. 105-33 to G.S. 105-113).
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
   State Law Reference: Privilege license taxes, G.S. 160A-211. See also
Schedule “B” of the Revenue Act or 1939, as amended (G.S. 105, Article 2) which
specifies whether a city or town may levy a license tax of businesses taxed
under this Schedule.
Section 2-4012 Construction of this article.
   This article is enacted for revenue purposes only. Therefore, it should be
construed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted under its terms. In
addition, issuance of a license in accordance with this article does not excuse
a licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
article does not prevent the town from imposing license taxes on additional
businesses, from increasing or decreasing the amount of any license tax, or
from regulating any business taxed.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4013 Levy of tax.
   An annual privilege license tax is hereby levied on each business conducted
within the Town of Canton listed in Section
2-4044, in the amounts set forth.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4014 Who must pay tax.
   Each person who conducts a business within the Town is subject to this
article. A person "conducts business" when he or she engages in one act of
business taxed under this article. He or she conducts the business "within the
Town" if he or she maintains a business location within the Town; or if, either
personally or through agents, he or she:
   (1)   Solicits business within the Town limits; or
   (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the Town limits.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4015 Period of license; due date.
   (a)   Annual licenses. Unless the section of this article levying the
privilege license tax applicable to a particular business provides otherwise, a
license issued in accordance with this article is good for the 12-month period
beginning July 1 and ending June 30. The tax is due on July 1 of each year.
However, if a person begins a business after July 1 of a year, the tax for that
year is due before the business is begun.
   (b)   Licenses for periods shorter than one year. If the section of this
article levying the privilege license tax applicable to a particular business
so provides, a license may be issued for a period of one day, one week, or some
comparable period of less than a full license year. A person may not commence a
business conducted within the Town and taxed under such a provision until the
privilege license tax due is paid, and may not continue such a business beyond
the period for which the license is issued.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
   Cross Reference: Charter provisions on license tax, Charter, Section
3-1.
Section 2-4016 Proration of tax.
   If a business is begun after January 31 and before July 1, the amount of tax
due is half the amount otherwise due. If a business is seasonal in nature and
if the amount of tax is not based on gross receipts, the amount of tax due is
half the amount otherwise due.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4017 Refunds.
   If for any reason a licensee discontinues his or her business during the
license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4018 Separate businesses.
   A separate license is required and a separate privilege license tax must be
paid for each place of business unless two or more places of business under
common ownership are contiguous to each other, communicate directly with and
open into each other, and are operated as a unit. In addition a separate
privilege license tax must be paid for each business taxable under this article
conducted by the taxpayer at any one location; however, the Tax Collector may
issue a single license for all taxable business conducted at one location by a
single taxpayer.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4019 Computation of tax based on gross receipts.
   (a)   Whenever this article levies a privilege license tax computed on the
basis of gross receipts, "gross receipts" means the amount reported as gross
receipts on a business's state income tax return, or on the federal income tax
return filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not
separately state gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year.
   (b)   If a business has not been in operation long enough for the
information required in subsection (a) above to be available, the Tax Collector
shall estimate gross receipts for the business on the basis of gross receipts
of comparable businesses, or any other information that the Tax Collector
considers useful.
   (c)   On or before the July 31 immediately after the license year, each
licensee who paid the tax for the past license year based on estimated gross
receipts shall submit to the Tax Collector a sworn final report showing the
amount of gross receipts for the license year. If the amount shown is more than
estimated gross receipts, the licensee shall pay the amount of additional tax
that would have been due had the estimate been accurate. If the amount shown is
less than estimated gross receipts, the Town shall refund to the licensee the
difference between the actual tax paid and the amount of tax that would have
been due had the estimate been accurate.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4020 Exemptions.
   (a)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section or by state
law, no person is exempt from the payment of the privilege license tax levied
by this article.
   (b)   Charitable organizations. A person who operates a business for a
religious, educational, civic, patriotic, charitable, or fraternal purpose,
when the entire gross income of the business is used for such a purpose, is
exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this article.
   (c)   Blind persons and members of the armed forces and merchant marine.
Blind persons and persons who serve in the United States armed forces or the
merchant marine are exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
article to the extent provided by G.S. 105-249 and G.S. 105-249(I).
   (d)   Must obtain license. A person exempt from paying a privilege license
tax levied by this article shall nevertheless obtain a license from the Tax
Collector. The license shall state that the licensee is exempt from paying the
privilege license tax.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4021 Application for license.
   A person shall apply to the Tax Collector for each license required by this
article no less than 30 days before the date the tax is due. The application,
which shall be submitted on forms provided by the Tax Collector, shall contain:
   (1)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an individual,
a partnership, a corporation, or some other entity;
   (2)   The nature of the business;
   (3)   Where the business conducted;
   (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as required
by this article;
   (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Chapter 938, and if so, the serial number of the state
license the applicant currently holds; and
   (6)   Any other information the Tax Collector determines to be necessary to
compute the amount of tax due.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4022 Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license.
   The Tax Collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons:
   (1)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his or her qualifications for a license;
   (2)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due;
   (3)   The applicant has not paid the privilege license tax or ad valorem tax
due for prior year(s); and/or
   (4)   The applicant has not yet obtained a State or County license, in
instances where State law requires payment of these licenses prior to issuance
of town licenses.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4023 Unqualified applicants; right to a conference.
   (a)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under Section
2-4022, the Tax Collector shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and shall
not issue the license. At the applicant's request, the Tax Collector shall, in
accordance with Section
2-4022, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license. The applicant may, within ten days after the day the statement is
received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the request the
applicant shall specify why the application for a license should not be
refused. The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time.
   (b)   If the Collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may reapply
for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the application
was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the Tax Collector shall issue the license in compliance with
Section
2-4024.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4024 Tax Collector to issue license; meant of tax a prerequisite.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector believes
that no reason exists for refusal of a license under Section
2-4022, he or she shall determine the amount of tax due and notify the
applicant of that amount. The Tax Collector shall not issue a license until the
tax is paid.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4025 Amount of tax disputed.
   If disputes arise over the amount the Tax Collector determines to be due,
the applicant may either refuse to pay and request a conference with the Tax
Collector to discuss the determination or pay the amount and request a
conference to discuss the right to a refund. If a conference is requested, the
Tax Collector shall arrange it within a reasonable time.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4026 Revocation of license.
   (a)   The Tax Collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke
it as set forth in Section
2-4022. Before revoking a license, the Tax Collector shall give the licensee
written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with Section
2-4032. The licensee may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request a conference with the Tax Collector in writing. The request
shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The Tax
Collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (b)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the Tax Collector shall revoke the license.
If the licensee requests a conference, the Tax Collector may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (c)   If the Tax Collector revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the Tax Collector shall issue the license in accordance with
Section
2-4024.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4027 Form and contents of license.
   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where the
business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at one place), the nature of
the business licensed, the period for which the license is issued, and the
amount of tax paid. In addition, if a machine is licensed, the license shall
show the serial number of the machine. The Tax Collector shall keep a copy of
each license issued.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4028 Assignments.
   A license may be assigned if:
   (1)   A business licensed under this article and carried on at a fixed place
is sold as a unit to any person; and
   (2)   The purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place. Such
a change shall be reported to the Tax Collector in accordance with Section
2-4029. Otherwise, each license issued under this article is a personal
privilege and is not assignable.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4029 Changes in the business conducted by the licensee during the tax
year.
   A licensee or an assignee shall report a change in the information contained
in the license application to the Tax Collector within ten days after the
change occurs. If information shown on the license itself is affected, the
licensee or assignee shall surrender the license to the Tax Collector when
reporting the change.
   (1)   Changes affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under Section
2-4022 and the change results in the imposition of a separate or additional
tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (2)   Changes not affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons
for revoking the license under Section
2-4022 and the change does not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change
upon payment of a fee of $5.
   (3)   Change requiring refusal of a license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under Section
2-4022, the Tax Collector shall refuse to reissue a license and shall instead
begin proceedings to revoke the license in accordance with Section
2-4016.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4030 Tax Collector to furnish duplicates.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the Tax
Collector shall furnish a duplicate for a fee of $5.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4031 Record of conferences.
   The Tax Collector shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held in accordance with this article. The record shall contain the applicant or
licensee's name, the date of the conference, and a brief statement of the
issues discussed and the result reached. After three years, the Tax Collector
shall dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. 121-5.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4032 Providing notice to an applicant or licensee.
   Whenever this article requires the Tax Collector to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, the Tax Collector may do so in one of
three ways:
   (1)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (2)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail and
returning the receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose in
the license application; or
   (3)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4033 Duty to determine whether tax due.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is taxed under this article and if so, whether that tax has been paid
for the current tax year.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4034 Tax Collector to investigate.
   If the Tax Collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the Town in violation of this article, the Tax Collector shall
conduct an investigation to determine the person’s tax liability.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4035 Duty to keep books.
   Each person who conducts a business taxed under this article shall keep all
records and books necessary to compute the tax liability. If a person fails to
keep books and records as required, the Tax Collector shall make a
determination of that person’s tax liability from the information available.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4036 Duty to permit inspection.
   Each person who conducts business in the Town shall permit the Tax Collector
to inspect the business premises during normal business hours to determine the
nature of the business conducted there and to examine the books and records to
determine the nature and amount of business transacted.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4037 Duty to post license.
   A licensee shall post the license or licenses conspicuously in the place of
business licensed. If the licensee has no regular place of business, the
license must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper Town
officials. If a machine is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the
machine.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4038 Notice of deficiency.
   If the Tax Collector determines that a person has not paid the full amount
of tax due under this article, either for the current license year or for a
prior license year, the Tax Collector shall give the person written notice of
the deficiency, in accordance with Section
2-4032. The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount of tax due; the
section of this article upon which the tax is based; the amount of tax paid;
any interest due; the balance owed; the manner and time period in which the
person may respond to the notice of the deficiency, and the consequences of
failing to respond as specified.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4039 Request for a conference.
   The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is served,
request a conference in writing. The request shall specify the person's
objections to the notice of deficiency. By way of illustration but not
limitation, a person who receives notice of a deficiency may object on the
following grounds:
   (1)   The tax due has already been paid;
   (2)   The Tax Collector miscalculated the amount of tax due;
   (3)   The Tax Collector based his or her calculation on incorrect or
insufficient information concerning either the nature or the amount of business
conducted; or
   (4)   The Tax Collector based the determination on an erroneous
interpretation of a section of this article that establishes a category of
business subject to a particular tax.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4040 Deficiency to become final.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under Section
2-4039, the deficiency becomes final and the Tax Collector shall proceed to
collect the deficiency.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4041 Conference held.
   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the Tax Collector shall not proceed
to collect the deficiency until hearing the taxpayer's objection's and
determining that the deficiency should become final. The Tax Collector shall
maintain a record of each conference held for three years in accordance with
Section
2-4039. The record shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the date of the
conference, a brief statement of the issues discussed, and the results of the
discussion. After three years, the Tax Collector shall dispose of the record in
compliance with G.S. 121-5.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4042 Collection of deficiency.
   (a)   The Tax Collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
   (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with Section
2-4043(a);
   (2)   Equitable relief in accordance with Section
2-4043(b); or
   (3)   The remedies of levy, sale, attachment and garnishment in accordance
with G.S. 160A-207.
   (b)   Any person who continues to conduct a business taxed under this
article without payment of the tax is liable for the additional tax of 5% every
30 days as imposed by G.S. 105-109.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4043 Enforcement of this article.
   (a)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the Town without having
paid the privilege license tax imposed by this article, or without a valid
license issued in accordance with this article, or without posting a license in
compliance with Section 2- 4037 is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in
G.S. 105-109 or G.S. 14-4. Each day that a person conducts business in
violation of this article is a separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in
criminal proceedings in accordance with this section does not relieve a person
of the liability for taxes imposed under this article.
   (b)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
subsection (a) above and in compliance with G.S. 160A-175(d), the Town may seek
an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation of this
article.
(Ord. of 6/25/02)
Section 2-4044 Taxable business categories and fees.
   (a)   All businesses listed in Schedule B of the North Carolina Revenue Act,
and any amendments thereto, as may from time to time be enacted, are hereby
adopted by reference with the respect to the issuance of a privilege license by
the Town.
   (b)   All businesses listed in Schedule B of the North Carolina Revenue Act
shall be subject to a privilege license tax at the maximum rate prescribed for
municipalities; except plumbers, heating contractors, and electricians shall be
charged at the rate of $25 per year.
   (c)   No license shall be issued for any business otherwise prohibited by
State statutes (i.e., G.S. 14-410.5 provides that it shall be unlawful for any
person to practice the art of phrenology, palmistry, clairvoyance, fortune
telling and other crafts of a similar kind in certain counties in the State).
   (d)   Non-Schedule B wholesale or retail businesses shall be taxed at the
rate of $25 per year (G.S. 160A-211).
   (e)   Barbershops or beauty salons shall be taxed at the rate of $2.50 per
barber, manicurist, cosmetologist, beautician or other operator employed in the
barbershop or beauty salon.
(G.S. 160A-211(b))
   (f)   Taxicabs shall be taxed at the rate of $15 per vehicle per year.
(G.S. 20-97)
   (g)   Alcoholic beverage businesses shall be taxed at the rate prescribed in
G.S. 105-113.73 and G.S. 105-113.78.
   (h)   Private clubs shall be taxed at the rate of $.50 per seat.
   (i)   Internet access/sweepstakes providers shall be taxed at an annual rate
of $2,500 for up to, but not exceeding, the first four machines or terminals
located in a business; and at an additional annual rate of $1,000 per machine
and/or terminal thereafter beyond the initial four machines or terminals.
(Ord. of 6/25/02; Amended by Ord. of 1/12/10; Amended by Ord. of 5/22/12)
ARTICLE C
Tax on Retail Short-Term Lease or Rental of Motor Vehicles
Section 2-4051 Tax established.
   The Town hereby imposes and levies a tax of 1.5% of the gross receipts from
the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to the general public.
(Ord. of 11/5/01)
Section 2-4052 Administration.
   The County Tax Collector will administer and collect from operators of
leasing and rental establishments the taxes levied hereby, and the County may
promulgate additional rules and regulations necessary for implementation of the
taxes. The County shall remit the taxes collected on the Town's behalf to the
Town monthly after said taxes are collected.
(Ord. of 11/5/01)
Section 2-4053 Payment of taxes and filing of returns.
   The taxes levied hereby are due and payable to the County in monthly
installments on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the month in
which the tax accrues. Every taxable establishment required to collect the tax
shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each month, prepare and render a
return to the County. The County shall design, print, and furnish to all
taxable establishments the necessary forms for filing returns and instructions
to insure the full collection of the tax. A return filed for this purpose is
not a public record as defined by G.S. 132-1 and may not be disclosed except as
required by law.
(Ord. of 11/5/01)
Section 2-4054 Penalties.
   (a)   The enforcement of the tax will be governed by G.S. Chapter 105
Article 9. Included in this section is G.S. 105-236, which establishes
penalties. The penalty for failure to file a return when due is 5% of the tax
if the delay is not more than one month plus 5% for each additional month not
to exceed 25% of the tax or $5, whichever is greater (G.S. 105-236(3)). The
penalty for failure to pay a tax when due is 10% with a minimum of $5 (G.S.
105-237). The reason for the reduction or waiver must be stated in the minutes.
Interest shall be calculated by the Machinery Act rate of 0.75% a month or 9% a
year, for each month the tax is delinquent.
   (b)   Any person, firm, corporation or association who willfully attempts in
any manner to evade a tax imposed herein or who willfully fails to pay the tax
or make and file a return shall, in addition to the penalties provided by law
and herein, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided by law.
(Ord. of 11/5/01)
ARTICLE D
Disposal of Personal Property
Section 2-4061 Procedure.
   (a)   In accordance with G.S. 160A-266(c), the Town Manager is hereby
designated to declare surplus any personal property valued at less than $5,000
for any one item or group of items, to set its fair market value, and to convey
title to the property for the Town. The personal property may be either sold or
exchanged.
   (b)   On the first day of February of each year, the Town Manager shall
report in writing to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen on any property disposed
of under such authorization from July 1 through December 31 of the previous
year, and shall on the first day of August report in writing to the Mayor and
Board of Aldermen on any property disposed of under such authorization from
January 1 through July 30 of that year. The written report shall generally
describe the property sold or exchanged, and the amount of money or other
consideration received for each sale or exchange since the last such report
submitted.
(Ord. of 7/9/02)
CHAPTER 5
Social Security and Retirement
Article A Employees Retirement Fund
Section
2-5001   Fund established; name.
Section
2-5002   Membership in fund.
Section
2-5003   When benefits payable.
Section
2-5004   Benefits based on prior service.
Section
2-5005   Tax shelter of employees' contributions
Section
2-5006   Administration by Board; execution of contract and payment of
premiums.
Section
2-5007   Reconciliation with federal income tax regulations.
Article B Social Security
(Reserved)
ARTICLE A
Employees Retirement Fund
Section 2-5001 Fund established; name.
   A retirement fund for the employees of the Town is hereby established under
the provisions and in accordance with Chapter 37 of the Session Laws of 1961,
which shall hereafter be known and referred to as the "Canton Employees
Retirement Plan."
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-78)
   Cross Reference: Chapter 37 of the 1961 Session Laws, authorizing the
establishment of the retirement fund, is included in this volume as a Related
Local Law, page L4.
   State Law Reference: Plan to be certified as actuarily sound by a qualified
actuary, G.S. 160A-163.
Section 2-5002 Membership in fund.
   Membership in the retirement fund shall include all classified employees of
the Town and the Town Manager.
(Code, 1963, Sec. 2-79) (Amended by Ord. of 1/1/76)
Section 2-5003 When benefits payable.
   Payment of benefits to employee members of the Canton Employees Retirement
Plan, or their beneficiaries, shall be in the case of retirement because of
age.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-80)
Section 2-5004 Benefits based on prior service.
   The benefits to be paid from the retirement fund shall be based partly upon
personal service rendered prior to the establishment of the fund by this
article. The contribution required to cover the cost of benefits based on prior
service shall be sufficient to fund the liability for such prior service in not
more than 40 years from the date of the establishment of such fund.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-81)
Section 2-5005 Tax shelter of employees contributions.
   The Town elects pursuant to the provisions of G.S. 128-30(b)(1) to pick up
and pay to the North Carolina Local Governmental Employees' Retirement System
the contributions which would be otherwise payable to this system by its
employees who are members of this system and to treat in all respects such
contributions in the manner specified in said G.S. 128-30(b)(1).
(Res. of 5-1-96)
Section 2-5006 Administration by Board; execution of contract and payment of
premiums.
   The retirement fund shall be administered by the Board and the Mayor is
hereby authorized and empowered to execute a contract for and on behalf of the
Town with an insurance company to put this plan into effect, and the Treasurer
of the Town is hereby authorized to pay the premiums on the fund in accordance
with the regular procedure of the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-83)
   Editorial Note: The original ordinance authorizing the retirement plan was
enacted in 1961. Effective January 1, 1976, the Board adopted a new "Town of
Canton Employees' Retirement Plan." A first amendment to the 1976 Plan was
adopted 7/1/82. A second amendment to the Plan was adopted 1/14/86. A third
amendment to the Plan was adopted 5/11/93. A fourth amendment to the Plan was
adopted 11/23/93.
Section 2-5007 Reconciliation with federal income tax regulations.
   Notwithstanding any other contrary provision of the Plan, in calculating the
accrued benefit (including the right to any optional benefit provided under the
Plan) of any participant, such participant shall accrue no additional benefit
under the Plan on or after the first day of the Plan year beginning in 1989 to
the extent that such additional benefit accrual exceeds the benefit which would
otherwise accrue in accordance with the terms of the Plan as subsequently
amended to comply with those qualification requirements described in Income Tax
Regulations Section 1-401(b)-1(b)(2)(ii) (TRA '86). This provision shall be
effective until the end of the Plan Year beginning in 1989 and shall be
effective for such period if and only if the subsequent TRA '86 amendment is
made on or before that date.
(Ord. of 6/13/89)
ARTICLE B
Social Security
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 6
Personnel Administration
ARTICLE A General Administration
Section
2-6001   The Board of Aldermen.
Section
2-6002   The Town Manager.
Section
2-6003   The classified service.
Section 2-6004 through 2-6010 reserved.
ARTICLE B General Personnel Policies
Section
2-6011   Hours of work.
Section
2-6012   Legal holidays.
Section
2-6013   Annual leave.
Section
2-6014   Sick leave.
Section
2-6015   Leave with pay.
Section
2-6016   Leave without pay.
Section
2-6017   [Reserved].
Section
2-6018   Military leave.
Section
2-6019   Training - educational policy.
Section
2-6020   Travel and expense reimbursement.
Section
2-6021   Outside employment.
Section
2-6022   Medical examinations.
Section
2-6023   Review of employee grievances.
Section
2-6024   Employee prohibitions.
Section 2-6025 through 2-6030 reserved.
ARTICLE C Separation and Disciplinary Action
Section
2-6031   Retirement.
Section
2-6032   Resignation.
Section
2-6033   Dismissal.
Section
2-6034   Demotion.
Section
2-6035   Suspension.
Section 2-6036 through 2-6040 reserved.
ARTICLE D Change in Employees Status
Section
2-6041   Probationary period.
Section
2-6042   Transfer.
Section 2-6043 through 2-6050 reserved.
ARTICLE E Compensation Rules
Section
2-6051   Appointment rate; salary of trainee.
Section
2-6052   Part-time work.
Section
2-6053   Pay rates in transfer; promotion or demotion.
Section
2-6054   Overtime payment.
Section 2-6055 through 2-6060 reserved.
ARTICLE F Employees' Benefits
Section
2-6061   Social security.
Section
2-6062   Retirement; termination of health care and life insurance benefits for
retirees.
Section
2-6063   Health, dental, life and accident insurance.
Section
2-6064   Uniforms.
Section
2-6065   Public safety departments.
Section
2-6066   Workmen's compensation.
Section
2-6067   Insurance accident and sickness benefits.
Section
2-6068   Health care and life insurance for retirees.
Section
2-6069   Dental care benefits to employees who retire.
Section 2-6070 through 2-6079 reserved.
ARTICLE G Merit System
Section
2-6080   Principles.
Section
2-6081   Merit salary increases.
ARTICLE A
General Administration
Section 2-6001 The Board of Aldermen.
   The Board of Aldermen shall make all appointments to the municipal service
coming within its statutory jurisdiction and shall authorize and approve the
pay plan for the municipal service.
   State Law Reference: Authority to adopt personnel rules and regulations,
G.S. 160A-164.
Section 2-6002 The Town Manager.
   The Town Manager shall serve as the Director of Personnel and be responsible
for the administration of the pay plan and of the personnel program, approve
all appointments to the classified service, excepting those positions which
come under the purview of the Board of Aldermen, prepare and recommend a
position classification system, prepare and recommend a pay plan for the
municipal service, advertise at his or her discretion, and where no applicants
for a position are available, all vacancies within the classified service,
maintain centralized personnel records and establish such training programs for
municipal employees as he or she may deem necessary and advisable.
Section 2-6003 The classified service.
   The classified service shall comprise all positions in the municipal
service, now existing or hereafter created, which shall fall under the direct
appointive authority of the Board of Aldermen and the Town Manager, with the
exception that any employee who is not employed on a full-time basis as a
regular employee by the Town of Canton shall not be included in the classified
service and shall not come under the provisions of this article. The position
of Town Manager shall not be included in the classified service.
Section 2-6004 through 2-6010 reserved.
ARTICLE B General Personnel Policies
Section 2-6011 Hours of work.
   The regular work week for the Town employees shall be 40 hours with the
exception of the Fire Department, Police Department and certain employees of
the Sanitation Department. The Fire and Police Departments shall submit for
approval a schedule of work for its employees to the Town Manager. Necessity
requires that some employees work at hours not hereby established and the said
employees' department head shall submit a list of employees not working regular
hours. A normal work day shall consist of eight (8) hours, normally worked
consecutively except for meals or other authorized interruptions. The normal
work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive days, usually Monday through
Friday. Public Safety Employees are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act,
and are subject to change with Federal and State Law.
Section 2-6012 Legal holidays.
   (a)   Legal holidays observed by Town employees, unless such employees are
required to be on regular duty are:
   (1)   New Year's Day
   (2)   Easter Monday
   (3)   Memorial Day
   (4)   Independence Day
   (5)   Labor Day
   (6)   Thanksgiving Day
   (7)   Christmas Day
   (8)   The birthday of a full-time Town employee shall be observed as a
holiday by the said employee.
   (9)   Any other day or days as may be from time to time authorized by the
Board of Aldermen.
   (b)   When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be
observed. When a holiday falls on Saturday, one (1) day of annual leave shall
accrue to all employees.
Section 2-6013 Annual leave.
(a)
Length of Service     Vacation Leave Equiv.
1 through 4 years   12 work days
5 through 9 years   15 work days
10 through 14 years   18 work days
15 through 19 years   21 work days
20 through 24 years   24 work days
Length of Service     Vacation Leave Equiv.
25 through 29 years   27 work days
30 and over      Each additional 2 years service equals one additional leave
day
   (b)   Vacation leave may not be accrued in excess of 35 days.
   (c)   Vacation leave will be scheduled by the various department head so as
to meet the needs of the departments with due regard to the wishes of the
employees.
   (d)   If vacation leave is not taken within the time specified in this
section, or if accrued in amount exceeding the stipulated maximum, it shall be
forfeited and no financial compensation shall be paid.
   (e)   A regular employee with more than one (1) year of service whose
employment is terminated by reason of resignation, retirement, or death is
entitled to payment of unused leave. Any employee suspended or dismissed shall
not be entitled to compensation of unused leave.
Section 2-6014 Sick leave.
   (a)   Each regularly employed full-time employee shall earn sick leave at
the rate of one (1) day per month of service.
   (b)   Each regularly employed full-time employee shall earn sick leave at
the rate of one day for each calendar month of service. Sick leave is a benefit
granted to the employee in the event of sickness, injury, disability caused by
pregnancy or childbirth, serious illness in the immediate family, or in the
event of death in the immediate family. (Immediate family shall mean Father,
Mother, Sister, Brother, Grandfather, Grandmother, Children, Spouse, Father-in-
Law, Mother-in-Law).
   (Note: It is known that there will be some deaths or serious illnesses of a
relative that are not covered by the definitions above, but who in actuality
served the employee by raising him or her by living in the same house for a
number of years and being part of the family group. These cases will be
determined by the Town Manager on recommendation from the department head)
   (c)   Sick leave for more than three (3) days shall be granted only upon
submission to the Town Manager of a written statement from the physician in
attendance certifying as to the employees condition and his inability to be at
work.
   (d)   Any employee may be required to submit a medical certificate for any
sick leave taken. The department head will exercise judgment in this instance.
   (e)   A minimum of two (2) hours shall be given the department head in
requesting sick leave prior to the scheduled work day.
   (f)   Any employee who becomes ill while in a vacation status may, upon
presentation of a medical certificate by the attending physician, be granted
sick leave for the period of illness.
   (g)   Any employee who falsely reports himself to be on sick leave shall be
subject to disciplinary action and dismissal.
   (h)   Sick leave can accrue an unlimited number of days. Sick leave is lost
upon resignation. However, twenty percent of outstanding sick leave, with a
maximum of two months, is payable upon retirement or death.
Section 2-6015 Leave with pay.
   (a)   Leave with pay may be granted to employees who are required to serve
jury duty; provided that prior consent is obtained from the department head.
   (b)   Attendance at official meetings or conferences may be considered
regular work duty, where such attendance is deemed to be in the best interest
of the Town.
Section 2-6016 Leave without pay.
   A regularly employed full-time employee with at least two (2) years
continuous service with the Town may be granted without pay for a period not to
exceed one (1) year, for sickness, education, disability, maternity, military
service or other reasons deemed sufficient by the Town Manager. The leave may
be extended for a period of more than one (1) year if the request receives the
written approval of the Town Manager and department head. It should be noted
that in allowing or disallowing a request for any leave of absence, the needs
of the service must be met and if in the opinion of the department head and the
Town Manager the leave without pay will affect the department's operating
efficiency, then the request shall be denied.
Section 2-6017 Reserved.
Section 2-6018 Military leave.
   A regular full-time employee who is required to take military leave shall be
entitled to the leave. Where the employee is to be absent for a period of two
(2) weeks or less, the leave will be granted at no loss of compensation.
Military leave of more than two (2) weeks duration will be at no compensation.
The maximum number of days allowed from military leave with compensation shall
be 15 days in any one (1) year. In calculating compensation, the employee will
be required to submit a copy of his pay voucher from the military branch
requiring his presence and the compensation paid by the Town will be the
difference between the military pay and the employee's regular pay. If the
employee's military pay shall equal or exceed his regular pay, then the
employee shall receive no compensation for his military leave.
Section 2-6019 Training - educational policy.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Canton to provide job related training
or schools as recommended by the Department Head and approved by the Town
Manager, for Town employees where such training or schools will clearly be in
the best interests of the Town. Such training or schools shall be provided at
the expense of the Town; however, in no event shall the Town provide such
employees with compensatory time off, or other means of compensation when such
job related training or schools is conducted after normal duty hours.
Section 2-6020 Travel and expense reimbursement.
   All regular full-time employees shall be reimbursed for travel and expenses
incurred in the course of their employment. To be eligible for such
reimbursement, however, the employee must have the approval of the Town
Manager. All reasonable expenses (e.g., transportation, meals, lodging, etc).
will be reimbursed at actual cost, while travel in a personal car will be
reimbursed at an approved rate per mile. Prior to such travel, the employee may
(at his discretion) receive an advance travel and expense allowance based upon
an approved per diem rate for such travel. The Town Manager shall be
responsible for the pricing for such travel advance and reimbursement
procedures on an appropriate travel expense/advance form. Such form(s) shall be
submitted to the Finance Office for advance travel and immediately following
such travel for reimbursement.
Section 2-6021 Outside employment.
   Any employee working at any job outside of his municipal employment shall
semi-annually submit a report to the Town Manager. These reports are to be made
so as to facilitate decisions with respect to possible conflict of interest or
adverse effect upon employee performance.
Section 2-6022 Medical examinations.
   (a)   All members of the classified service shall be required to undergo a
medical examination prior to reporting for work with the department. The
physician examining the employee must submit in writing a statement of the
physical condition of the employee to the Town Manager.
   (b)   Any and all employees may be required to undergo medical examinations
at periodic intervals at the discretion of the department head or the Town
Manager. In situations where service beyond the normal retirement age is
contemplated, annual physical examinations will be required.
Section 2-6023 Review of employee grievances.
   Any employee of the Town of Canton who believes that he has received
inequitable treatment because of some condition of his employment, may appeal
for relief from that condition of his employment. The chain-of-command shall
always prevail in these instances. The employee shall first take up his
grievance with his immediate supervisor. If the situation is not alleviated to
the satisfaction of the employee, then he may take the matter up with his
department head. If settlement cannot be achieved at this level, then employee
and the department head may take the grievance up with the Town Manager. The
Manager will take final action in such cases and report his findings to the
employee and supervisor. If any employee registers a grievance with his
supervisor, the supervisor is obligated to permit transmission of the grievance
through proper channels regardless of the supervisor's evaluation of the
validity of the grievance.
Section 2-6024 Employee prohibitions.
   (a)   No person in the classified service or seeking admission to the
classified service shall be appointed, promoted, demoted, removed or in any
other way be favored or discriminated against for political or religious
reasons. No employee shall seek or attempt to use any political endorsement in
connection with any appointment to, or preferment or advantage in connection
with any employment to, or preferment or advantage in connection with a
position in the classified service.
   (b)   No officer or employee in the classified service shall continue in
such position after being qualified as a candidate for nomination or election
to any public office.
   (c)   No town employee under the supervision of the Town Manager who has
supervisory responsibilities shall live more than 15 minutes' driving time of
the town limits.
(Ord. of 1/26/88)
   (d)   Violation of (a) or (b) above shall be grounds for dismissal or
rejection of any application.
Section 2-6025 through 2-6030 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Separation and Disciplinary Action
Section 2-6031 Retirement.
   Normally, an employee will retire on the last day of the month of the 65th
anniversary of his birthday. An employee can continue to work after this normal
retirement date. Of course, the Town of Canton can require an employee to
retire if he is not doing his job properly or the position requires bona fide
occupational qualifications. Benefit payments to participants on the retirement
plan will begin upon actual retirement.
Section 2-6032 Resignation.
   (a)   Any employee wishing to leave the classified service in good standing
shall submit a letter of resignation to his department head at least two (2)
weeks before leaving. The letter shall contain reasons for leaving the
classified service. Failure to comply with this procedure shall be just grounds
for denying compensation for any unused leave time. Unauthorized leave from
work for a period of three (3) consecutive days may be considered by a
department head as a resignation.
   (b)   All department heads shall transmit all resignations to the Town
Manger within 24 hours of receipt. Any employee leaving the classified service
in good standing shall be compensated for unused annual leave.
Section 2-6033 Dismissal.
   Any regular employee may be dismissed by his department head. The department
head shall notify the Town Manager in writing of any dismissal and the reason
therefor.
Section 2-6034 Demotion.
   Any regular employee may be demoted by his department head for inefficient
performance of duties, disciplinary reasons or other good cause. A written
statement shall be made by the department head to the Town Manager within 24
hours of any such action.
Section 2-6035 Suspension.
   Any regular employee may be suspended, without pay, by his department head
for disciplinary reasons. Suspension of any employee shall not exceed 30 days
within the calendar year. The department head shall notify the Town Manager of
any suspension, in writing, within 24 hours of the action. The department head
shall list the reasons for the suspension.
Section 2-6036 through 2-6040 reserved.
ARTICLE D
Change in Employees Status
Section 2-6041 Probationary period.
   The first six months of employment for any new employee of the Town shall be
regarded as a probationary period. The Town Manager has the option of extending
the probationary period for longer than six months at his discretion. This time
will be utilized in closely observing the employee's work and development and
for rejecting any employee whose work performance does not meet the required
work standards.
Section 2-6042 Transfer.
   Any vacant position may be filled by an employee of the Town where the
transfer is deemed to be in the best interest of the Town. The transfer shall
be for a probationary period of six (6) months and the employee being
transferred must have qualifications such as the vacant position needs. Any
employee transferred to a higher paying position must at the end of the
probationary period be performing satisfactory work in the new position. If
this is not the case, the employee shall return to his original position.
Section 2-6043 through 2-6050 reserved.
ARTICLE E
Compensation Rules
Section 2-6051 Appointment rate; salary of trainee.
   (a)   Pay and classification plan: All persons employed by the Town of
Canton shall be appointed at the minimum rate of pay as established for his
class; provided, however, that the employee may be placed in a "trainee" status
until such time that the employee can satisfactorily meet the minimum
requirements of the position. The appointment rate may be raised to the second
level only upon approval of the Town Manager at the written recommendation of
the department head. Such recommendation shall contain reasons for justifying
starting the employee at above the minimum rate. In cases of promotion,
employees will advance to the step above their present pay rate, disregarding
the minimum rate set for the new class. Upon the satisfactory completion of the
probationary period, a new employee, hired at the minimum rate, shall advance
to the second step of the pay range for his class. New employees hired at the
minimum step shall not advance to the third step within a period of less than
one year.
   (b)   Salary of trainee: A new employee who does not meet all of the
established qualifications for a position may be appointed with the approval of
the Town Manager at a "Training" salary at least one step below the minimum
salary established for that position classification. The employee shall
continue in this salary until the appointing department head with the approval
of Town Manager shall determine that the employee is qualified to assume the
responsibilities of the position. The salary of the employee shall then be
placed at the starting salary for the position classification.
Section 2-6052 Part-time work.
   When the need arises, the Town shall employ part-time employees. These
employees will be subject to Federal and State guidelines.
Section 2-6053 Pay rates in transfer; promotion or demotion.
   If an employee is transferred, promoted or demoted, his rate of pay shall be
determined as follows:
   (1)   If the rate of pay in the former class is less than the minimum rate
established for the class of the new position, the rate of pay shall be
advanced to the minimum of the class.
   (2)   If the rate of pay in the former class is greater than the maximum
rate established for the class of the new position, the pay shall be reduced to
the maximum rate or to an intermediate rate as determined by the Town Manager.
   (3)   If the rate of pay of the former class falls within the new range of
pay, and at an established increment in the range of the new class, the salary
rate shall remain the same in the case of transfer; in case of promotion it
shall be increased one (1) increment; in case of demotion it shall be reduced
one (1) increment.
   (4)   If the previous rate falls within the new range of pay but does not
correspond to an increment in the new range, then the rate of pay shall
increase to the next higher increment or reduced to the next lower increment,
according to whether it is a promotion, transfer or demotion.
   (5)   Solicitations by any company, firm, corporation, or agent shall not be
made during a regularly scheduled workday, nor shall solicitations be made on
Town property.
   (6)   Employees wishing to deduct any monthly payment from their paychecks
must first consult with the Accounting Department of the Town to determine if
deductions can be coordinated with our accounting procedure.
Section 2-6054 Overtime payment.
   Overtime work (in excess of 40 hours per work week) shall be paid on a one-
and one-half time basis. For any call back time, a minimum of two (2) hours
credit will be given to the employee.
(As amended by Ord. of 2/89)
Section 2-6055 through 2-6060 reserved.
ARTICLE F
Employees' Benefits
Section 2-6061 Social Security.
   The prescribed rates for Social Security are paid by the Town to match the
employees contribution.
Section 2-6062 Retirement; termination of health care and life insurance
benefits for retirees.
   (a)    Town has established a retirement system for all employees who have
completed one (1) year of credited service and attained age 25. The total cost
of the retirement plan is paid by the Town.
   (b)   Retired employees of the town who are receiving health care benefits
as provided in the resolution which became effective January 1, 1985, shall not
have their health care benefits terminated without there first being a public
hearing regarding same and all retired and full-time employees receiving health
care benefits being mailed notice of such public hearing.
(Ord. of 2/12/85)
   (c)   Retired employees of the town who are receiving life insurance
coverage as provided in the resolution which became effective November 1, 1986,
shall not have their life insurance coverage terminated without there first
being a public hearing regarding same and all retired and full-time employees
receiving life insurance coverage being mailed notice of the public hearing.
(Ord. of 10/28/86, Sec. 1)
Section 2-6063 Health dental, life and accident insurance.
   The Town maintains a health dental, life and accident insurance policy on
each employee after the employee works one month. The total cost of the policy
is paid for by the Town.
Section 2-6064 Uniforms.
   In most departments, uniforms are furnished for the employees. The total
cost of these uniforms is paid for by the Town.
Section 2-6065 Public Safety Departments.
   In cases where Public Safety Departments have policy booklets established
and adopted for those departments, the Personnel Rules and Regulations as
adopted by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall coincide and supersede these
departmental policy booklets.
Section 2-6066 Workmen's compensation.
   Workmen's compensation benefits will be paid to any employee who is involved
in a job related accident, and who, only through a doctor's orders, is unable
to return to work in less than seven (7) days. Each employee may build an
indefinite number of days of sick leave and will draw full wages in addition to
workmen's compensation. Annual leave and sick leave continue to accrue during
the entire illness.
Section 2-6067 Insurance accident and sickness benefits.
   Insurance accident and sickness benefits will be paid to any employee who is
absent from work from a nonjob-related accident or illness. Each employee may
build an indefinite number of days of sick leave and will draw full wages in
addition to accident and sickness benefits paid by the Town's insurance
company. This is an incentive to build as many sick leave days as possible for
use in the event of a long-term illness.
Section 2-6068 Health care and life insurance for retirees.
   (a)   An employee who retires according to the Town of Canton Employees'
Retirement Plan requirements, with at least 15 years permanent active Town
employment will receive health care insurance paid by the Town, for said
employee for the remainder of his or her lifetime and for his or her spouse
until spouse reaches age 70. Should an employee retire on disability with at
least five years permanent active Town employment, health care insurance will
be provided by the Town for said employee for the remainder of his or her
lifetime and for his or her dependents until age 19 or until age 25 if a full-
time student, and for his or her spouse until age 70.
   (b)   An employee who retires according to the Canton Employees' Retirement
Plan requirements, with at least 15 years permanent active Town employment will
receive life insurance paid by the Town according to the following schedule for
the remainder of his or her lifetime:
   Under age 70            to 50%
   At or after age 70         to 10% of original amount, but not less than
$1,000.
(Ord. of 10/10/89; Ord. of 10/10/89; as amended by Ord. of 4-1-91; as amended
by Ord. of 4-1-91)
Section 2-6069 Dental care benefits to employees who retire.
   (A)   An employee who retires according to the Town of Canton Employees'
Retirement Plan requirements, with at least 15 years permanent active Town
employment will receive dental care insurance paid by the Town, for said
employee for the remainder of his or her lifetime; and
   (B)   Should an employee retire on disability with at least five years
permanent active Town employment, dental care insurance will be provided by the
Town for said employee for the remainder of his or her lifetime.
(Ord. of 5/13/97)
Section 2-6070 through 20-6079 reserved.
ARTICLE G
Merit System
Section 2-6080 Principles.
   The Town of Canton embraces the following merit system principles in
administering its personnel program:
   (a)   Applicants and employees shall be assured of fair treatment in all
aspects of personnel administration without regard for political affiliation,
religious creed, sex, national origin, color or race. Individuals shall
likewise be treated with proper regard for their privacy and constitutional
rights as citizens.
   (b)   Employees shall be recruited, selected, trained and advanced on the
basis of their relative ability, knowledge, and skill.
   (c)   Employees shall be retained on the basis of the adequacy of their
performance. They shall be guided in ways to correct inadequate performance and
separated when inadequate performance cannot be corrected.
   (d)   Employees shall be protected against coercion for partisan political
purposes.
   (e)   Employees shall receive equitable and adequate pay and benefits and
eligible employees shall receive merit pay increases based on the quality of
their performance, subject to the availability of funds.
Section 2-6081 Merit Salary Increases.
   Pay increases of one-half step or one whole step on the applicable salary
grade may be granted to deserving regular full-time employees in accordance
with the following provisions:
   (a)   When the employees holds a permanent appointment with the Town, i.e.,
the employee satisfactorily complete the required probationary period.
   (b)   When such an increase will not exceed the maximum salary rate for the
class of his position.
   (c)   When a year of continuous service has elapsed.
   (d)   When the work of the employee exceeds the standards established for
satisfactory performance, but is below outstanding performance, the employee
may be recommended for a half-step merit increase.
   (e)   When the work of the employee is determined to be outstanding on a
continuing basis, the employee may be recommended for a whole step merit
increase.
   (f)   When the employee is recommended for a merit salary increase (half-
step or whole step) by his department head it shall be the responsibility of
the department to periodically (at least annually) counsel with his employees
with regard to work quality and quantity, dependability, attitude, attendance
and punctuality, and to suggest ways and means of improving same (where
appropriate). The Town Manager shall be responsible for establishing an
appropriate system for implementing this merit provision and to see that it is
carried out in a responsible manner.
CHAPTER 7
Boards and Commissions
ARTICLE A Recreation Commission
Section
2-7001   Commission created.
Section
2-7002   Composition; appointment of members.
Section
2-7003   Terms of members; vacancies.
Section
2-7004   Members to serve without compensation.
Section
2-7005   Meetings; officers.
Section
2-7006   General powers and duties.
Section
2-7007   Change; modification of powers.
Section
2-7008   By-laws, rules and regulations.
Section
2-7009   Appointment of director of recreation and other employees.
Section
2-7010   Acceptance and use of grants, gifts, and bequests.
Section
2-7011   Limitation on right to contract or incur obligations.
Section
2-7012   Disbursing funds budgeted to or received by commission; accounting for
funds received.
Section
2-7013   Reports to Board.
Section
2-7014   Submission of estimated budget to the Board.
Section 2-7015 through 2-7020 reserved.
ARTICLE B Planning Board
Section
2-7021   Established; composition; appointment of members.
Section
2-7022   Terms of members; vacancies; oath of office.
Section
2-7023   Officers.
Section
2-7024   Conflict of interest.
Section
2-7025   Meetings generally.
Section
2-7026   Attendance at meetings.
Section
2-7027   Powers and duties generally.
Section
2-7028   Basic studies by Board.
Section
2-7029   Comprehensive plan - generally.
Section
2-7030   Public hearings on the comprehensive plan.
Section
2-7031   Powers and duties relative to zoning ordinance.
Section
2-7032   Powers and duties relative to subdivision regulations.
Section
2-7033   Appointment of committees and employees; authorizing expenditures.
Section
2-7034   Receipt and disbursement of contributions.
Section
2-7035   Right of entry.
Section
2-7036   Authority relative to publicity and education.
Section
2-7037   Attendance by members and employees at planning conferences.
Section
2-7038   Rules and records.
Section
2-7039   Annual report and budget request to Town Board.
Section
2-7040   Duty of Town officials to furnish information to board.
Section 2-7041   Chairman, secretary to serve as ex-officio members of County
Planning Board.
Section 2-7042 through 2-7050 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Section 2-7051 through 2-7060 reserved.
ARTICLE D Other Boards and Commissions
Section
2-7061   Board of Elections.
Section
2-7062   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Section
2-7063    reserved.
Section
2-7064   Historical Commission.
Section
2-7065    reserved
Section
2-7066   Uplift Committee.
Section
2-7067   Retirement Plan Committee.
Section
2-7068   Labor Day Commission.
Section 2-7069 through 2-7070 reserved.
ARTICLE E Advisory Community Appearance Commission
Section
2-7071   Establishment; composition.
Section
2-7072   Qualifications of members.
Section
2-7073   Terms of members.
Section
2-7074   Compensation of members.
Section
2-7075   Organization; rules; meetings; records.
Section
2-7076   Powers and duties of commission.
Section
2-7077   Annual report; budget requests; funding; staff.
Section 2-7078 through 2-7080 reserved.
ARTICLE F Camp Hope Commission
Section
2-7081   Authority.
Section
2-7082   Establishment and composition.
Section
2-7083   Qualifications of members.
Section
2-7084   Terms of members.
Section
2-7085   Compensation of members.
Section
2-7086   Advisory function.
Section
2-7087   Organization, rules, meetings, and records.
Section
2-7088   Change; modification of powers.
Section
2-7089   Purposes and powers.
Section
2-7090   Annual reporting; purchasing, cash handling, and fundraising.
ARTICLE A
Recreation Commission
Section 2-7001 Commission created.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Recreation
Commission of Canton, North Carolina.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-8)
   State Law Reference: Specific authority to create commission, G.S. 160A-354.
Parks and Recreation in general, G.S. 160A, Article 18.
Section 2-7002 Composition; appointment of members.
   The recreation commission shall be composed of ten (10) members to be
appointed by the Board of Aldermen.
Section 2-7003 Terms of members; vacancies.
   (a)   Members appointed to the commission shall serve for a term of two
years and until their successors are appointed and qualified, except for the
term of the member who represents the Board which shall automatically terminate
at any time his affiliation with such unit ends.
   (b)   Vacancies in the commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-10; Amended by Ord. of 3/22/94)
Section 2-7004 Members to serve without compensation.
   The members of the commission shall serve without compensation.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-12)
Section 2-7005 Meetings; officers.
   (a)   The commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as
it may designate.
   (b)   The commission shall appoint from its membership a chairman and such
other officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly conduct of its
business.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-13, 14-14)
Section 2-7006 General powers and duties.
   The recreation commission shall provide, maintain, operate and supervise the
public parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and recreation centers and other
recreational facilities owned or controlled by the Town, or leased or loaned to
the commission by the owners thereof. The commission shall have complete
supervision of the facilities and activities provided and conducted on or in
connection with the parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and recreation centers
and shall have the power to conduct any form of recreational or cultural
activity. Such powers as are provided by State statute or by ordinances of the
Town relating to the development and operation of recreation systems, parks and
playgrounds are hereby vested in the recreation commission to be exercised by
it subject to any and all restrictions contained in such statutes and
ordinances.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-15)
Section 2-7007 Change; modification of powers.
   The powers and authority granted by this article to the recreation
commission may be changed, altered, modified or amended by the Board at any
time in its discretion.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-16)
Section 2-7008 By-laws, rules and regulations.
   The recreation commission may adopt bylaws, rules and regulations covering
its procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code and applicable
State laws. The commission shall, from time to time, make rules and regulations
governing the operation and conduct of the recreational facilities operated by
the commission.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-17)
Section 2-7009 Appointment of director of recreation and other employees.
   The recreation commission shall have power to appoint and designate a
director of recreation who possesses the necessary foundation training and who
demonstrates by actual work his ability to organize and direct a community
recreation system. Such other trained persons as may be necessary in the
maintenance and operation of the recreation facilities and system may be
employed by the commission.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-18)
Section 2-7010 Acceptance and use of grants, gifts, and bequests.
   The recreation commission may accept any grant, gift, bequest or donation of
any personal property offered or made for recreational purposes and, with the
approval of the Board may accept any grant, gift or devise of real estate. Any
gift or bequest of money or other personal property or grant or devise of real
estate shall be held, used and finally disposed of in accordance with the terms
or conditions under which such grant, gift or devise is made and accepted.
(Code 1963, Sec. 19-19)
Section 2-7011 Limitation on right to contract or incur obligations.
   The recreation commission shall have no authority to enter into any contract
or incur any obligations binding upon the town other than the current
obligations or contracts to be fully executed within the current fiscal year
and all within the budget appropriations made by the Mayor and Board of
Aldermen.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-20)
Section 2-7012 Disbursing funds budgeted to or received by commission;
accounting for funds received.
   Funds appropriated by the Board of Aldermen and budgeted to the recreation
commission shall be disbursed by the fiscal disbursing officer of the Town upon
vouchers issued by the recreation commission and approved by the Board and
within the budget appropriations made. Funds received by the recreation
commission from operation of the playgrounds and recreation system and from
other sources shall be paid to the treasurer of the Town to the credit and use
of the commission and disbursed as budget funds are disbursed, except that
funds received by gift, bequest, grant or devise shall be disbursed in
accordance with the terms of such gift or bequest. Funds collected by the
commission shall be paid to the Town treasurer weekly, and a report of the
collections filed with the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-21)
Section 2-7013 Reports to Board.
   The recreation commission shall make full and complete reports to the Board
at least quarterly and at such other times as may be requested to by the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-22)
Section 2-7014 Submission of estimated budget to the Board.
   The recreation commission shall submit to the Board its estimated budget for
each fiscal year, setting out in detail the estimated expenses and estimated
receipts from the operation of the recreational facilities and other sources.
Such proposed budget shall be submitted by the end of each fiscal year.
(Code 1963, Sec. 14-23)
Section 2-7015 through 2-7020 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Planning Board
Section 2-7021 Established; composition; appointment of members.
   (a)   There is hereby established a planning board for the Town, which board
shall consist of not less than four members nor more than nine members
appointed by the Board of Aldermen, who shall be residents of the Town.
   (b)   In addition, the planning board shall consist of four members who
reside outside the Town but within its extraterritorial jurisdiction as
established in an "Ordinance Establishing Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
Boundaries." The Haywood County Board of Commissioners shall appoint three
members. One member shall be a resident of the Haywood County portion of the
Rough Creek extraterritorial jurisdiction and one member shall be a resident of
the extraterritorial jurisdiction located in the Pigeon River watershed, and
one member shall be a resident of the extraterritorial jurisdiction located in
the Asheville Highway ETJ. The Buncombe County Board of Commissioners shall
appoint one member who shall be a resident of the Buncombe County portion of
the Rough Creek extraterritorial jurisdiction. However, in the event either
County Board of Commissioners is unable to find a resident of its portion of
the extraterritorial jurisdiction who is willing to serve on the planning
board, it shall appoint any resident of the respective county to serve on the
board. Appointments by the County Boards of Commissioners shall be for five-
year terms.
(Ord. of 9/15/87; Amended by Ord. of 9/14/93; Amended by Ord. 7/22/97; Amended
by Ord. of 6/24/21)
State Law Reference: Establishment of planning board; duties, G.S. 160D-301.
Section 2-7022 Terms of members; vacancies; oath of office.
   The members of the planning board shall be appointed for terms of three
years. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall be
filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term. All members
appointed to the Planning Board shall, before entering their duties, qualify by
taking an oath of office.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-52; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7023 Officers.
   The planning board shall elect a chairman and create and fill such offices
as it may determine to be necessary. The term of the chairman and other
officers shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election. The chairman and
other officers shall be residents of the Town of Canton.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-53; Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7024 Conflict of interest.
   Members of the Planning Board shall not vote on any advisory or legislative
decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to this article
where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
An appointed board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the
landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a
text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7025 Meetings generally.
   The planning board shall hold at least one meeting monthly, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public. The Planning Board shall keep minutes of
board proceedings. A majority of the membership of the planning board eligible
to vote shall be a quorum for the purpose of taking any official action
required by this article. The members of the board representing the
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall have equal rights, duties and privileges
with other members of the board except in those matters dealing exclusively
with property inside the corporate limits of the Town, in which case the
extraterritorial representative shall have no authority to vote regardless of
whether or not the extraterritorial representatives have authority to vote.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-54; Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; Amended by Ord. of 9/14/93;
Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7026 Attendance at meetings.
   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the planning board shall be
considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-55; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7027 Powers and duties generally.
   It shall be the function and duty of the planning board to make
comprehensive surveys and studies on existing conditions and probable future
developments and prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth
as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience or the
general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the
town. In general, the planning board shall have the power and duty to:
   (1)   Acquire and maintain in current form such basic information, and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions, and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
   (2)   Prepare and from time to time amend and revise a comprehensive and
coordinated plan for the physical development of the area;
   (3)   Establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
   (4)   Prepare and recommend to the Town Board ordinances promoting orderly
development in accordance with the comprehensive plan;
   (5)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area, including, but not limited to, review and comment on
all zoning text and map amendments as required by G.S. 160D-604;
   (6)   To provide a preliminary forum for review of quasi -judicial
decisions, provided that no part of the forum or recommendation may be used as
a basis for the deciding board; and
   (7)   Keep the Town Board and the general public informed and advised as to
these matters.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-56; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7028 Basic studies by Board.
   The planning board may collect maps and aerial photographs of man-made and
natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends and present
conditions with respect to population, property values, the economic base of
the area, land use, and other such information as is important or likely to be
important in the preparation of a comprehensive plan of development for the
planning area and its various parts. In addition, the planning board may make
special studies on the location, condition, and adequacy of specific
facilities, which may include but are not limited to studies of housing;
commercial and industrial facilities; parks, playgrounds and recreational
facilities; public and private utilities; and traffic transportation and
parking facilities.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-57; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7029 Comprehensive plan-generally.
   (a)   The comprehensive plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts, and
descriptive matter, shall be and show the planning board's recommendations to
the Town Board for the development of the planning area, including, among other
things, the general location, character and extent of streets, bridges,
boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields, and other
public ways, grounds and open spaces; the general location and extent of public
utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for
water, light, sanitation, transportation, communication, power and other
purposes; the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment,
change of use, or extension of any of the foregoing ways, buildings, grounds,
open spaces, property, utilities, or terminals; the most desirable pattern of
land use within the area, including areas for residential uses, for farming and
forestry, for manufacturing and industrial uses, for commercial uses, for
recreational uses, for open spaces, for mixed uses and for other features.
   (b)   The plan and any ordinances or other measures to effectuate it shall
be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated,
adjusted, and harmonious development of the town and its environs which will,
in accordance with present and future needs, best promote health, safety,
morals and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the
process of development, including, among other things, adequate provision for
traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate
provision for light and air, the promotion of healthful and convenient
distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design and
arrangements, wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate
provision of public utilities, services and other public requirements.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-58; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7030 Public hearings on the comprehensive plan.
   Comprehensive plans shall be adopted by the Town Board of Aldermen with the
advice and consultation of the planning board. Adoption and amendment of a
comprehensive plan is a legislative decision and shall follow the process
mandated for zoning text amendments set by G.S. 160D-601. The planning board
may conduct such public hearings as required to gather information necessary
for the drafting, establishment, and maintenance of the comprehensive plan.
Before adopting any such plan the Town shall hold at least one (1) public
hearing thereon.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-58; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
   Cross Reference: The Town zoning ordinance is Part 9, Chapter 4.
   State Law Reference: Zoning regulations are authorized by G.S. 160D-702.
Section 2-7031 Powers and duties relative to zoning ordinance.
   (a)   The planning board shall prepare and submit a zoning ordinance and
maps to the Town Board for its consideration and possible adoption in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North
Carolina. The planning board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for
amendment of the zoning ordinance, based upon its studies and the comprehensive
plan. In addition, it shall review and make recommendations to the Town Board
concerning all proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance.
   (b)   When conducting a review of proposed zoning text or map amendments
pursuant to this section, the planning board shall advise and comment on
whether the proposed action is consistent with any comprehensive plan that has
been adopted and any other officially adopted plan that is applicable. The
planning board shall provide a written recommendation to the governing board
that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the
planning board, but a comment by the planning board that a proposed amendment
is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not preclude consideration or
approval of the proposed amendment by the governing board. If a zoning map
amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning" under G.S. 160D-602(b), the
planning board statement describing plan consistency may address the overall
rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the relevant adopted
plans were considered in the recommendation made.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-60; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7032 Powers and duties relative to subdivision regulations.
   The planning board shall prepare and submit subdivision regulations to the
Town Board for its consideration and adoption and the planning board shall
administer such regulations after their adoption.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-61; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7033 Appointment of committees and employees; authorizing
expenditures.
   The planning board is authorized to appoint such committees and employees,
and to authorize such expenditures as it may see fit, subject to limitations of
funds provided for the planning board by the Town Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-62; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7034 Receipt and disbursement of contributions.
   The planning board is authorized to receive contributions from private
agencies and organizations or from individuals, in addition to any sums which
may be appropriated for its use by the Town Board. It may accept and disburse
such contributions for special purposes or projects, subject to any specific
conditions which it deems acceptable, whether or not such projects are included
in the approved budget.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-63; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7035 Right of entry.
   The planning board or its agents may, in the performance of its official
duties, enter upon lands and make examinations or surveys and maintain
necessary monuments thereon.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-64; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7036 Authority relative to publicity and education.
   The planning board shall have power to promote public interest in and an
understanding of its recommendations, and to that end it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ such other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-65; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7037 Attendance by members and employees at planning conferences.
   Members or employees of the planning board, when duly authorized by the
planning board, may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning
institutes or hearings upon pending planning legislation, and the planning
board may, by formal and affirmative vote, pay, within the planning board's
budget, the reasonable traveling expenses incidental to such attendance.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-66; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7038 Rules and records.
   The planning board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and
shall keep a record of its members' attendance and of its resolutions,
discussions, finding, and recommendations, which record shall be a public
record.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-67; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7039 Annual report and budget request to Town Board.
   The planning board shall annually submit to the Town Board a written report
of its activities, an analysis of the expenditures to date for the current
fiscal year, and its requested budget of funds needed for operation during the
ensuing fiscal year.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-68; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7040 Duty of Town officials to furnish information to board.
   All town officials shall, upon request, furnish to the planning board such
available records or information as it may require in its work.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-69; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7041 Chairman, secretary to serve as ex-officio members of County
Planning Board.
   It shall be the duty of the chairman and secretary of the Canton Planning
Board to serve as ex-officio members of the Haywood County Planning Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 2-70; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 2-7042 through 2-7050 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Section 2-7051 through 2-7060 reserved.
ARTICLE D
Other Boards and Commissions
Section 2-7061 Board of Elections.
   The Town Board of Elections, consisting of three members, is appointed by
the Town Board of Aldermen, to serve permanent terms. Their primary function is
to uphold Federal, State and Local election laws in the Town of Canton.
   Cross Reference: Election Board, Ch. 131, Priv. L. 1935, as amended, see
Related Local Laws, page L-3.
Section 2-7062 Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   There are five corporate members on the Zoning Board of Adjustment and four
extraterritorial jurisdiction members. Initial corporate members are appointed
for staggered three-year terms. ETJ members, two members representing the
Critical Area of the Rough Creek Watershed (one appointed by Buncombe County
and one appointed by Haywood County), one member representing the Critical Area
of the Pigeon River Watershed and one member representing the Asheville Highway
ETJ, are appointed by the County Board of Commissioners and their appointments
shall be for three-year terms. The function of this Board is to vote on any
reversal or decision of the Building Inspector or variation of any zoning
ordinance. Detailed duties and Board composition are listed in this Code, Part
9, Chapter 5.
(Amended by Ord. 7/22/97)
Section 2-7063 Repealed.
   Editorial Note: Section
2-7063 concerning the Housing Authority, was repealed by an ordinance passed 9/
9/80.
Section 2-7064 Historical Commission.
   (a)   Establishment; composition. The Canton Historical Commission, composed
of 11 members serving 2-year terms, was formed to collect, preserve and record
all major historical events that have had an impact on the Town of Canton.
Documents and artifacts in the possession of the Commission are available to
the general public for purposes of exhibition or study.
(Ord. of 1/23/90)
   (b)   Qualification of members.
   (1)   Members are not required to reside inside the Town limits.
   (2)   Where possible, appointments to the Commission shall be made in such a
manner as to maintain at all times a majority of members who have an interest
or have had special training or experience in historical preservation,
conservation, architecture, records retention, or a closely related field.
   (c)   Term of members.
   (1)   Members shall be appointed by the Board of Alderman, and shall serve
for a term of two years or until they are reappointed. The Board of Alderman
shall appoint the Chairman, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. The
ex-officio member who represents the Board of Alderman shall serve for the
duration of his or her term on the Board of Alderman or a replacement is named.
   (2)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration of terms
shall be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term.
   (d)   Compensation of members. Members of the Commission shall serve without
pay, but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incidental to the performance of
their duties, within the limits of funds available to the Commission. In all
cases, any such reimbursement shall only be made in accordance with policies
approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (e)   Organization; rules; meetings; records.
   (1)   Within 30 days after its appointment, the Commission shall meet and
elect such officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly conduct of its
business. The term of the chair and other officers shall be one year with
eligibility for reelection.
   (2)   The Commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as
it may designate. The Commission shall hold at least six meetings per year.
   (3)   The Commission shall adopt rules to govern the conduct of its meetings
based upon Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (4)   The Commission shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and of
its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which shall be open
to the public. A copy of the minutes of each meeting shall be filed with the
Town Clerk and Board of Aldermen.
   (5)   All Commission meetings shall be open to the public.
   (6)   For the purpose of taking any official action authorized or required
there shall be present a quorum of six members.
   (f)   Powers and duties of the Commission. It shall be the purpose of the
Commission to carry out the historic preservation objectives promulgated by the
Town’s governing body. To that end, the Commission shall have the following
powers:
   (1)   Formulate ideas and concepts for historic preservation programs,
projects, and plans; and to present recommendations to the Board of Aldermen
for approval.
   (2)   Initiate, promote and assist in the implementation of programs of
historic significance in the Town, as approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (3)   Oversee, coordinate and implement the historic preservation programs
that will preserve buildings, records, documents, photographs, and other items
of historical significance.
   (4)   Seek to coordinate the activities of individuals, agencies, and
organizations, public and private, whose plans, activities and programs affect
the historic aspects affecting the Town.
   (5)   Provide leadership and guidance in matters of renovation, design and
appearance to individuals, and to public and private organizations, and
agencies seeking to preserve items of historical significance.
   (6)   Make studies of the historical characteristics of the Town, including
surveys and inventories of an appropriate nature, and recommend any project to
be undertaken.
   (7)   Gather, collect, copy inventory, catalogue, and preserve or record
items of historical significance.
   (8)   Request from the proper officials of any public or private agency or
body, including agencies of the state and its political subdivisions, its
records of buildings, facilities, documents, photographs, or materials of
historic significance located within the Town.
   (9)   Formulate and recommend to the Board of Aldermen the adoption or
amendment of ordinances, including the Zoning Ordinance, subdivision
regulations, and other local ordinances regulating the use of property, that
will, in the opinion of the Commission, serve to enhance the historic
preservation of the Town.
   (10)   Promote the display of any article or item of historical significance
for educational purposes.
   (11)   Promote public interest in and an understanding of its history, and
to that end to conduct exhibitions and displays as well as prepare, publish,
and distribute to the public those studies and reports in the opinion of the
Commission, advance the cause of historic preservation and education.
   (g)   Annual report; budget requests.
   (1)   The Board of Aldermen may appropriate such funds as it deems necessary
to carry out the purposes for which the Commission was created.
   (2)   The Commission shall, no later than April 15 of each year, submit in
writing to the Town Manager and Board of Aldermen a written report of its
activities, a statement of its expenditures to date for the current fiscal
year, and its requested budget for the next fiscal year.
   (3)   The Commission shall have no authority to incur any financial
obligation or liability in the name of the Town without first having obtained
the consent and approval of the Board of Aldermen. All accounts and funds of
the Commission shall be administered in accordance with the requirements of the
Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
   (4)   The Commission is authorized to receive contributions from private
agencies, foundations, organizations, individuals, the state or federal
governments, or any other source, in addition to any sums which may be
appropriated for its use by the Board of Aldermen.
   (5)   The Commission may request from the Board of Aldermen suitable
arrangements for the procurement or provision of staff or technical services of
the Commission.
(Ord. of 5/26/02)
   Editorial Note: Ord. of 1/23/90 changed Commission's membership from seven
to eleven members, retroactive to February 14, 1989.
Sec. 2-7065   Repealed.
   Editorial Note: Section
2-7065 concerning the Citizens Advisory Board was repealed by an ordinance
passed 3/22/94.
Section 2-7066 Uplift Committee.
   There shall be established a Town "Uplift Committee" composed of 13 members,
each serving a three-year term.
Section 2-7067 Retirement Plan Committee.
   A Group Annuity Contract was originally established on August 29, 1961 to
provide retirement benefits for the Town's employees. By ordinance, the Board
of Aldermen amended the Group Annuity Contract and established The Town of
Canton Employees' Retirement Plan with, an effective date of January 1, 1976.
The Retirement Committee consists of the Mayor, the Town Manager and one
additional member appointed by the Board of Aldermen. The Committee shall
perform all administrative duties and responsibilities as set forth in section
8 of the plan. The Trustees (Mayor and Town Manager) must invest, administer,
and care for the funds contributed to the plan from any and all sources.
Section 2-7068 Labor Day Commission.
   (a)   A Labor Day Commission is hereby established to be responsible for
planning and overseeing activities for the Canton Labor Day Ceremony.
   (b)   The Labor Day Commission shall be comprised of six members to serve
two year terms. Members of other boards will be given first priority for
selection to this Commission.
   (c)   A budget shall be established by the Labor Day Commission and the
Commission shall have the financial responsibility of the Labor Day activities.
   (d)   The Commission shall establish policies, rules, and regulations and
shall recommend to the Board of Aldermen any ordinance necessary to carry out
the Labor Day activities.
   (e)   The Commission may secure voluntary help from other organizations,
agencies, or individuals and see that the necessary insurance and bonds are in
place for all activities or agencies participating in Labor Day.
(Ord. of 8/10/93; Amended by Ord. of 3/22/94; Amended by Ord. of 3/27/96)
Section 2-7069 through 2-7070 reserved.
ARTICLE E
Advisory Community Appearance Commission
Section 2-7071 Establishment; composition.
   There is hereby created an advisory commission to be known as the Town of
Canton Community Appearance Commission, which shall consist of nine members
appointed by the Board of Aldermen. In addition to the nine members, the
Commission shall have two non-voting Ex-Officio members, one of which shall be
selected from the Board of Aldermen and the other one selected by the Canton
Papertown Association.
(Ord. of 1/26/93; Amended by Ord. of 3/22/94; Amended by Ord. of 3/6/96)
Section 2-7072 Qualifications of members.
   (a)   Seven members are required to reside inside the Town limits. Two
members can live outside of Canton, one of which shall be a Canton business
person.
   (b)   Where possible, appointments to the Commission shall be made in such a
manner as to maintain at all times a majority of members who have had special
training or experience in a design field, such as architecture, landscape,
horticulture, city planning or a closely related field.
(Ord. of 1/26/93; Amended by Ord. of 3/6/96)
Section 2-7073 Terms of members.
   (a)   Members shall serve for a term of two years or until they are
reappointed. The member who represents the Board of Aldermen shall serve for
the duration of his or her term on the Board of Aldermen or replacement named.
   (b)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration of terms
shall be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term.
(Ord. of 1/26/93; Amended by Ord. of 3/22/94)
Section 2-7074 Compensation of members.
   Members of the Commission shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for
actual expenses incidental to the performance of their duties, within the
limits of funds available to the Commission. In all cases, any such
reimbursement shall only be made in accordance with policies approved by the
Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. of 1/26/93)
Section 2-7075 Organization; rules; meetings; records.
   (a)   Within 30 days after its appointment, the Commission shall meet and
elect a Chair and such other officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly
conduct of its business. The term of the Chair and other officers shall be one
year with eligibility for reelection.
   (b)   The Commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as
it may designate. The Commission shall hold at least six meetings per year.
   (c)   The Commission shall adopt rules to govern the conduct of its
business.
   (d)   The Commission shall keep a record of its members' attendance and of
its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which shall be open
to the public. A copy of the minutes of each meeting shall be filed with the
Board of Aldermen and the Planning Board.
   (e)   All Commission meetings shall be open to the public.
   (f)   For the purpose of taking any official action authorized or required,
there shall be present a quorum of five members.
(Ord. of 1/26/93)
Section 2-7076 Powers and duties of Commission.
   It shall be the purpose of the Commission to carry out the beautification
objectives promulgated by the Town's governing body. To that end, the
Commission shall have the following powers:
   (a)   Formulate ideas and concepts for beautification programs and present
recommendations to the Board of Aldermen for approval;
   (b)   Initiate, promote and assist in the implementation of programs of
general community beautification in the Town, as approved by the Board of
Aldermen;
   (c)   Oversee, coordinate and implement the streetscape program which shall
include flower beds, Christmas lighting, gazebo and all beautification projects
in the future;
   (d)   Seek to coordinate the activities of individuals, agencies, and
organizations, public and private, whose plans, activities and programs bear
upon the appearance of the Town;
   (e)   Provide leadership and guidance in matters of area or community design
and appearance to individuals, and to public and private organizations, and
agencies;
   (f)   Make studies of the visual characteristics and problems of the Town,
including surveys and inventories of an appropriate nature, and recommend
standards and policies of design for the entire area, any portion or
neighborhood thereof, or any project to be undertaken;
   (g)   Prepare both general and specific plans for the improved appearance of
the Town. These plans may include the entire area or any part thereof and may
include private as well as public property. The plans shall set forth desirable
standards and goals for the aesthetic enhancement of the Town or any part
thereof including public ways and areas, open spaces, and public and private
buildings and projects;
   (h)   Request from the proper officials of any public agency or body,
including agencies of the state and its political subdivisions, its plans for
public buildings, facilities, or projects to be located within the Town;
   (i)   Review these plans and make recommendations regarding their aesthetic
suitability to the appropriate agency, or to the Board of Aldermen. All plans
shall be reviewed by the Commission in a prompt and expeditious manner, and all
recommendations of the Commission with regard to any public project shall be
made in writing. Copies of the recommendation shall be transmitted promptly to
the Planning Board or the Board of Aldermen and to the appropriate agency;
   (j)   Formulate and recommend to the Board of Aldermen the adoption or
amendment of ordinances (including the Zoning Ordinance, subdivision
regulations, and other local ordinances regulating the use of property) that
will, in the opinion of the Commission, serve to enhance the appearance of the
Town;
   (k)   Direct the attention of Town officials to needed enforcement of any
ordinance that may in any way affect the appearance of the Town;
   (l)   Seek voluntary adherence to the standards and policies of its plans;
   (m)   Promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, studies, and plans, and to that end to prepare, publish, and
distribute to the public those studies and reports as will, in the opinion of
the Commission, advance the cause of improved Town appearance;
   (n)   Conduct public meetings and hearings as needed.
(Ord. of 1/26/93)
Section 2-7077 Annual report; budget requests; funding; staff.
   (a)   The Board of Aldermen may appropriate such funds as it deems necessary
to carry out the purposes for which the Commission was created.
   (b)   The Commission shall, no later than April 15 of each year, submit in
writing to the Town Manager and Board of Aldermen a written report of its
activities, a statement of its expenditures to date for the current fiscal
year, and its requested budget for the next fiscal year.
   (c)   The Commission shall have no authority to incur any financial
obligation or liability in the name of the Town without first having obtained
the consent and approval of the Board of Aldermen. All accounts and funds of
the Commission shall be administered in accordance with the requirements of the
Local Government Budget and fiscal Control Act.
   (d)   The Commission is authorized to receive contributions from private
agencies, foundations, organizations, individuals, the state or federal
governments, or any other source, in addition to any sums which may be
appropriated for its use by the Board of Aldermen.
   (e)   The Commission may recommend to the Board of Aldermen suitable
arrangements for the procurement or provision of staff or technical services
for the Commission.
(Ord. of 1/26/93)
Section 2-7078 through 2-7080 reserved.
ARTICLE F
Camp Hope Commission
Section 2-7081 Authority.
   This article is enacted pursuant to authority conveyed by G.S. 160A-146.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7082 Establishment and composition.
   There is hereby created an advisory commission to be known as the Town of
Canton Camp Hope Commission, which shall consist of nine members appointed by
the Board of Aldermen/women. In addition to the nine members, the Commission
shall have two non-voting ex-officio members, selected from the Board of
Aldermen/women.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7083 Qualifications of members.
   (a)   Five members are required to reside inside the corporate Town limits.
Up to four members may reside outside of the corporate Town limits.
   (b)   Where possible, appointments to the Commission shall be made in such a
manner as to maintain at all times a majority of members who have had special
training or experience in ground or facility maintenance, outdoor recreation,
forestry, architecture, landscape architecture, planning, or business
administration.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7084 Terms of members.
   (a)   Members shall serve for a term of two years and until their successors
are appointed and qualified, except for the term of the member who represents
the Board which shall automatically terminate at any time his/her affiliation
with such unit ends. Members may serve up to three consecutive terms and must
wait one term cycle before reappointment.
   (b)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration of terms
shall be filled by the Board of Aldermen/women as they occur for the period of
the unexpired term.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7085 Compensation of members.
   Members of the Commission shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for
actual expenses incidental to the performance of their duties, within the
limits of funds available to the Commission. In all cases, any such
reimbursement shall only be made in accordance with policies approved by the
Board of Aldermen/women.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7086 Advisory function.
   The Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Town Board of
Aldermen/women and the Town Manager on matters pertaining to or affecting the
maintenance, operation, and long range planning of Camp Hope.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7087 Organization, rules, meetings, and records.
   (a)   Within 30 days after its appointment, the Commission shall meet and
elect a Chair and Vice Chair and such other officers as it may deem necessary
for the orderly conduct of its business. The term of the Chair and other
officers shall be one year with eligibility for re-election.
   (b)   The Commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as
it may designate. The Commission shall hold at least six meetings per year. The
Commission’s meetings shall be open to the public and the Commission shall
comply with the Open Meetings Law.
   (c)   The Commission shall adopt bylaws, rules and regulations covering its
procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code and applicable
State laws.
   (d)   The Commission shall adopt rules to govern the conduct of its meetings
based upon Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (e)   The Commission shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and of
its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations. A copy of the
minutes of each meeting shall be filed with the Clerk. The minutes and other
official documents of the Commission shall be public records.
   (f)   For the purpose of taking any official action authorized or required,
there shall be present a quorum of five members.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7088 Change; modification of powers.
   The powers and authority granted by this article to the Camp Hope Commission
may be changed, altered, modified or amended by the Board at any time at its
discretion.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7089 Purposes and powers.
   It shall be the purpose of the Commission to advise the Board of Aldermen/
women and the Town Manager on the maintenance, operation, and long range
planning of Camp Hope in order to support its preservation for public use in
perpetuity. To that end, the Commission shall have the following powers:
   (a)   Formulate ideas and concepts for new programming and present
recommendations to the Board of Aldermen/women and Town Manager for approval;
   (b)   Promote and assist in the implementation of new programs as approved
by the Board of Aldermen/women and Town Manager;
   (c)   Assist staff with the planning and execution of volunteer projects in
accordance to the Town’s risk management policies;
   (d)   Plan and conduct Commission-led maintenance projects that
appropriately align with the skill levels of members in coordination with the
Town;
   (e)   Plan and execute fundraising activities for capital improvements in
conjunction with Town staff;
   (f)   Assist staff with evaluating building and grounds conditions and
prioritizing deferred maintenance projects based on health, safety, and
welfare;
   (g)   Foster the communication and coordination among citizens of the Town,
the community surrounding Camp Hope, and the region in order to increase public
awareness of Camp Hope and bring about support for Camp Hope initiatives;
   (h)   Conduct research on the management and planning of public campgrounds,
wilderness areas, and outdoor event venues;
   (i)   Assist staff with the development of rental policies and fee
structures;
   (j)   Conduct public meetings and hearings as needed;
   (k)   Research various grant sources to support capital improvements; and
   (l)   Ensure the Town is operating the facility in accordance to all
enumerated deed restrictions.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
Section 2-7090 Annual reporting, purchasing, cash handling, and fundraising.
   (a)   The Board of Aldermen/women may appropriate such funds as it deems
necessary and available to support improvements and operations for Camp Hope.
Such funds shall be administered by staff under the advisement of the
Commission.
   (b)   The Commission shall, no later than April 15 of each year, submit in
writing to the Town Manager and Board of Aldermen/women a written report of its
activities for the fiscal year.
   (c)   The Commission shall have no authority to incur any financial
obligation or liability in the name of the Town. Only Town staff, following
State purchasing laws and Town purchasing policies, may enter into contacts or
purchase orders for Camp expenditures. Whenever possible, staff shall make
supplies and material purchases for the Camp. Commission members may make
purchases for materials and supplies from time to time to an open vendor
account upon written approval of Town staff.
   (d)   The Town shall collect all fees for rentals.
   (e)   The Commission is authorized to contact and network with private
agencies, foundations, organizations, individuals, and the State or the Federal
government to discuss funding opportunities.
   (f)   All formal requests for grant funding shall be made through the Town
as the applicant upon approval from the Board of Aldermen/women.
   (g)   The Commission is authorized to solicit donations directly from
private individuals with the understanding that all such donations shall be
coordinated with Town staff for collection according to proper accounting
procedures prescribed by the Town.
   (h)   The Commission may recommend to the Board of Aldermen/women suitable
arrangements for the procurement or provision of staff or technical services
for the Commission.
   (i)   All fundraising activities shall be coordinated with staff and all
collections shall be handled in strict accordance to Town cash handling
policies.
(Ord. of 7/24/14)
PART 3 Public Safety
CHAPTER 1
Law Enforcement
ARTICLE A Police Department
Section
3-1001   Organization.
Section
3-1002   Manager to have control.
Section
3-1003   Chief of Police.
Section
3-1004   Uniforms.
Section
3-1005   Powers and duties of policemen.
Section
3-1006   Resisting police prohibited.
Section 3-1007 through 3-1010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Auxiliary Police
Section
3-1011   Auxiliary police division established.
Section
3-1012   Chief of police to control; appointments and removals.
Section
3-1013   Duties.
Section
3-1014   Identification.
Section
3-1015   Carrying and custody of firearms.
ARTICLE A
Police Department
Section 3-1001 Organization.
   The police department of the Town shall consist of a chief and as many
policemen as the Manager, under the general direction of the Board, shall from
time to time determine, and as many special policemen as may be necessary to
appoint for special purposes.
Section 3-1002 Manager to have control.
   The Manager shall have general supervision over the police department. The
Manager may suspend any member of the police department until the next regular
meeting at which time final disposition of the matter giving rise to the
suspension shall be made.
Section 3-1003 Chief of police.
   Public Safety The chief shall have control over the police department under
the supervision of the Manager. The chief shall keep the Manager informed of
the department's activities and make such reports that the Manager may from
time to time require, and he shall perform such other duties as may be required
of him by the Manager. The chief of police shall reside within the corporate
limits of the Town of Canton.
(Amended by Ord. of 9/24/85)
Section 3-1004 Uniforms.
   All police officers shall wear uniforms as shall be provided by the Town,
shall keep such uniforms in a neat and clean condition and shall surrender all
uniforms and equipment upon leaving the police service of the Town if such
uniforms and equipment were furnished by the Town.
Section 3-1005 Powers and duties of policemen.
   Each policeman shall:
      (1)   Have within the corporate limits of the Town all of the powers
invested in law-enforcement officers by statute or common law;
      (2)   Have power to serve all civil and criminal process that may be
directed to him by any officer of the General Court of Justice;
      (3)   Rigidly enforce all laws, ordinances and regulations of the Town
and the State of North Carolina and report each and every violation thereof to
the Mayor; and
      (4)   At all times preserve the peace and protect the property and the
safety of the citizens of the Town.
Section 3-1006 Resisting police prohibited.
   No person shall resist the police while. in the discharge of their duty, by
force, words or threats, or any attempt to excite others to resistance, or in
any other manner obstruct them in the performance of their duty.
Editorial Note: For additional provisions regarding the polio department see
G.S. 160A-281; 160A-285.
Section 3-1007 through 3-1010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Auxiliary Police
Section 3-1011 Auxiliary police division established.
   There is hereby established within the Town police department, as a division
thereof, an auxiliary police division. The auxiliary police division shall be a
volunteer organization, composed of as many members as may from time to time be
determined by the Manager.
Section 3-1012 Chief of police to control; appointments and removals.
   (a)   The auxiliary police division shall be under the direct control of the
chief of police, acting under the general supervision of the Manager. All
appointments and removals of members of the auxiliary police division shall be
made in the same manner and under the same policies and procedures as may from
time to time be established for appointment and removal of regular police
officers.
   (b)   The auxiliary police division shall have no commanding officer, nor
any officers, and all members shall bear the rank of patrolman. Each member of
the auxiliary police division shall take the oath of office of a regular
policeman. The chief of police shall provide for adequate training of members
of the auxiliary police division, and of candidates for membership.
Section 3-1013 Duties.
   (a)   The duties of the auxiliary police division, subject at all times to
the direction, supervision and control of the chief of police, shall be 'to
assist the regular members of the police department in the enforcement of law
and the maintenance of peace and order when called to active duty by the chief
of police. The chief shall by order establish rules and regulations to govern
the auxiliary police division, to fix the specific duties of its members, and
to provide for the maintenance of discipline. Members of the auxiliary police
division shall obey the instructions of regular police officers in carrying out
their duties.
   (b)   The chief may prescribe other duties than those mentioned herein to be
performed by the auxiliary police division, with approval of the Manager.
Section 3-1014 Identification.
   An identification card and such other insignia or evidence of identity as
the chief may prescribe shall be issued to each member of the auxiliary police
division who must carry the card and other identification at all times while on
duty, and who must surrender them upon the termination of his membership.
Section 3-1015 Carrying and custody of firearms.
   Members of the auxiliary police division may, while on duty, carry or use
any firearm upon order of the chief of police.
Editorial Note: For provisions at to the authority of a municipality to create
auxiliary police positions see G.S. 160A-282.
CHAPTER 2
Fire Prevention and Protection
ARTICLE A Fire Department
Section
3-2001   Organization.
Section
3-2002   Duties of chief.
Section
3-2003   Same; duties es fire inspector.
Section
3-2004   General authority at fires.
Section
3-2005   Interfering with firemen or fire apparatus.
Section
3-2006   Only firemen may ride on trucks without permission.
Section
3-2007   Interfering with fire alarm apparatus.
Section
3-2008   Fire protection outside of Town.
Section
3-2009   Technical codes and standards adopted by reference.
Section 3-2010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Fire Prevention and Hazards
Section
3-2011   Open fires prohibited in fire limits.
Section
3-2012   Use of tar pots in fire limits.
Section
3-2013   Snaking in theaters or meeting halls.
Section
3-2014   Interference with firemen; approaching site of fire.
Section 3-2015 through 3-2020 reserved.
ARTICLE C Fire Limits
Section
3-2021   Description.
ARTICLE A
Fire Department
Section 3-2001 Organization.
   The fire department shall consist of the chief of the fire department and a
sufficient number of firemen (voluntary, part or full time) to maintain and
operate the department. The Manager shall appoint the chief and approve the
appointment to the department of all members. The department may from time to
time adopt its own rules and regulations governing the department subject to
the approval of the Manager and the Board. However, any such rules and
regulations shall include provisions for at least one training period each
month and that any member who is absent from two consecutive meetings without a
bona fide reason be dropped from the department.
Section 3-2002 Duties of chief.
   (1)   Have general control of the department, the personnel, apparatus, and
fire alarm systems.
   (2)   Command the department and supervise the fire-fighting and
extinguishing of all fires and shall have the authority to keep away from the
vicinity of all fires, any and all idle, disorderly or suspicious persons.
   (3)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all trucks and other equipment of the
fire department each and every week to ascertain that such equipment is being
kept in proper condition. He shall report annually to the Manager the condition
of all equipment.
   (4)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all fire hydrants and fire alarm
systems at least once every three months and shall make a report of such
inspection to the Manager.
   (3)   The fire department chief shall reside within the corporate limits of
the Town of Canton. (Amended by Ord. of 9/24/85)
State Law Reference: Duties of fire chief enumerated, G.S. 160A-292.
Section 3-2003 Same; duties as fire inspector.
   (a)   The chief is to assume the functions of fire inspector. As such, he
(or his designated agent) shall have authority to enter any and all premises,
at a reasonable time, for purposes of inspection.
   (b)   Routine inspections. He shall make annual inspections of all
structures located within the fire district.
   (c)   Inspections upon 'complaint. He shall, upon receipt of a complaint
forthwith investigate.
   (d)   He shall investigate the causes of fires and shall keep records of his
findings as to origin, location, owner, extent of damage and injury, and amount
of insurance carried. The findings must be reported to the North Carolina
Insurance Commissioner at regular intervals.
   (e)   He shall cause the removal of fire hazards by serving proper orders to
the owner or agent of premises in question, such orders to state a reasonable
time limit. Failure to comply with such order shall be considered a
misdemeanor.
Section 3-2004 General authority at fires.
   (a)   The officer in command shall have authority to summon aid and no
citizen so summoned may refuse to help in extinguishing the fire or n
protecting exposed property.
   (b)   During the continuance of a fire, the fire chief, his assistant or the
Mayor shall have authority to call upon any citizen to render assistance in
pulling down or demolishing any building or in removing goods or furniture from
a building on fire or in danger of fire, but not without the consent of the
officer of the fire department or the police department who may be in charge.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to congregate on the streets or alleys near a
fire in a manner which would interfere with the activities of the fire
department.
   (d)   In the event of an alarm of fire the apparatus of the fire department
responding to it shall have the right-of-way in and upon all streets, lanes,
alleys and other public ways.
   (e)   The drivers of vehicles, upon the approach of fire' apparatus shall
immediately bring their vehicle to a stop on the right hand side of the street
in the direction in which they are facing and shall not move their vehicle
until such apparatus has passed.
Section 3-2005 Interfering With firemen or fire apparatus.
   No person shall interfere with a fireman in the discharge of his duty, or
hinder him in the performance of said duty; nor shall any person other than
members of the fire department loiter about any fire station, or change,
handle, or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or any other fire
apparatus.
Section 3-2006 Only firemen may ride on trucks without permission.
No person other than a bona fide member of the fire department shall mount any
fire engine, wagon or apparatus before it leaves the station or while on its
way to or from a fire, or at any other time, unless by permission of the driver
or officer in command of such engine, wagon or apparatus.
State Law Reference: Interference with fire equipment; following emergency
vehicles; running over fire hose,. G.S. 20-157.
Section 3-2007 Interfering with fire alarm apparatus.
   No person shall interfere carelessly or willfully with the fire alarm system
or injure the poles, wires, boxes, or other apparatus connected therewith.
Section 3-2008 Fire protection outside of Town.
   In the event that the Town agrees with the county, or the owners of property
outside the Town, to provide fire protection therefor, any employee of the fire
department, while engaged in any duty or activity outside the corporate limits
of the Town pursuant to orders of the fire chief or Manager, shall have all of
the jurisdiction, authority, rights, privileges, and immunities, including
coverage under the workmen's compensation laws, which they have within the
corporate limits of the Town.
State Law Reference: Fire protection outside city limits; maintenance of
equipment; jurisdiction, G.S. 160A-293.
Section 3-2009 Technical codes and standards adopted by reference.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein the
current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Prevention
Code. Copies of this Fire Prevention Ordinance of the Town of Canton and all
technical codes and standards are available for public inspection in the office
of the Fire Chief.
   (b)   Amendments to codes and standards adopted by reference herein which
are adopted and published by the North Carolina State Building Code Council
shall be effective in the Town of Canton at the time such amendments become a
part of North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Prevention Code. (Ord. of 3/
28/24)
Section 3-2010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Fire Prevention and Hazards
Section 3-2011 Open fires prohibited in fire limits.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite, use or maintain any open or
unenclosed fire within the fire limits of the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 8-1)
Section 3-2012 Use of tar pots in fire, limits.
   Any person using a tar pot for heating tar within the fire limits of the
Town shall use a type of pot which is enclosed in such a manner that the fire
cannot come in contact with the tar, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
use an open tar pot for heating tar within the fire limits of the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 8-2)
Section 3-2013 Smoking in theaters or meeting halls.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke any cigarette, cigar, pipe or
other article, or strike any match, lighter, or other Inflammable or explosive,
in any moving picture show or theater in the Town while a show is in progress,
or in any other public gathering held in an enclosed structure. This section
shall apply from the time the door is opened for admission until the last
person has been cleared from the entire structure.
(Code 1963, Sec. 8-3)
Section 3-2014 Interference with firemen; approaching site of fire.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or interfere with any fireman
at the scene of a fire, and no person except duly qualified firemen, shall
approach nearer than 100 feet to the site of a fire, without permission from
the fire chief.
(Code 1963, Sec. 8-4)
Cross Reference: Interference with fire apparatus, Sec.
3-2005.
Section 3-2015 through 3 2020 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Fire Limits
Section 3-2021 Description.
   The area embraced in the description herein set forth is hereby established
and designated as the primary fire limits in the Town of Canton:
   Beginning at a point in the center of the Main line of Southern Railway and
the south margin of Old Clyde Road, where Old Clyde Road crosses said railroad,
and runs thence with the south margin of Old Clyde Road a westerly direction to
Canton corporate limits; thence with the Canton corporate limits a southerly
course crossing U.S. 19-23 to a point 150 feet south of the south margin of
U.S. 19-23; thence parallel with U.S. 19-23 and 150 feet from the south margin
of said highway an east course to a point 150 feet south from the south margin
of the connection of U.S. 19-23 and Park Street; thence continuing parallel
with Park Street and 150 feet from the south margin of Park Street an east
course to a point 150 feet south from the south margin of the intersection of
Park Street and Main Street; thence continuing parallel with Main Street and
150 feet from the south margin of Main Street an east course to a point 150
feet south from the south margin of the intersection of Main Street and Church
Street; thence parallel with Church Street and 150 feet from the south margin
of Church Street a northeasterly course to a point measured at right angle from
the intersection of Church and Bridge Streets; thence parallel with Bridge
Street and 150 feet from the east margin of said Bridge Street a north course
to the center of the Main line of the Southern Railway; thence with the center
of said Main line of Southern Railway a westerly course to the beginning.
State Law Reference: Board required to establish fire limits, G.S. 160A-435.
Restrictions within fire limits, G.S. 160A-436.
CHAPTER 3
Emergency and Rescue
ARTICLE A Emergencies
Section
3-3001   State of emergency.
Section
3-3002   Proclamation of state of emergency.
Section
3-3003   Curfew.
Section
3-3004   Termination of curfew and state of emergency.
Section
3-3005   Unlawful activities during state of emergency.
Section
3-3006   Penalty for violation of article.
Section 3-3007 through 3-3010 reserved.
ARTICLE 8 Civil Defense Department
Sections 3-3011 through 3-3020 reserved.
ARTICLE C Emergency Medical Service
(Reserved)
ARTICLE A
Emergencies
Section 3-3001 State of emergency.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist wherever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
(Code 1963, Sec. 6A-1)
State Law Reference: Powers of the mayor during state of emergency, G.S. 14-
288.12.
Section 3-3002 Proclamation of state of emergency.
   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the Town or threatening
damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence
of such a state of emergency, and, in order more effectively to protect the
lives, safety and property of people within the Town, to define and impose a
curfew applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 6A-3)
Section 3-3003 Curfew.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application of
such a curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
corporate limits of the Town and to specific hours of the day or night; and to
exempt from the curfew policemen, firemen, doctors, nurses, and such other
classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and
immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the
people within the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 6A-4)
Section 3-3004 Termination of curfew and state of emergency.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state and curfew as soon as
circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 6A-5)
Section 3-3005 Unlawful activities during state of emergency.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew has
been imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to such curfew:
   (1)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley, or roadway or upon
public property, unless in search of medical assistance, food, or other
commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-being of himself or his
family or some member thereof.
   (2)   To possess off one's own premises, buy, sell, give away, or otherwise
transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous
weapon of any kind.
   (3)   To sell beer, wines, or intoxicating beverages of any kind; or to
possess or consume the same off one's own premises.
   (4)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products, or any other
inflammable substances, except as expressly authorized by the provisions of the
curfew imposed.
(Code 1963, Sec. 6A-6)
Section 3-3006 Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50.00 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days as provided by G. S. 14-4.
(Code 1963, Sec. 6A-2)
ARTICLE B
Civil Defense Department
Section 3-3007 through 3-3010 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Emergency Medical Service
(Reserved)
PART 4
Public Works
CHAPTER 1
Streets and Sidewalks
ARTICLE A Acceptance and Improvement of Public Streets
Section
4-1001   Definitions.
Section
4-1002   Petition generally.
Section
4-1003   Rights-of-way or easements required.
Section
4-1004   Cost sharing by Town and property owners.
Section
4-1005   Assessments.
Section
4-1006   Adoption of resolution contrary to article.
Section
4-1007   Street improvements.
Section
4-1008   Sidewalk improvement.
Section
4-1009   through 4-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE B Excavation and Repair
Section
4-1021   Permit to dig in streets.
Section
4-1022   Application for permit; fees.
Section
4-1023   Indemnity agreement required of applicant; Town's liability.
Section
4-1024   Refilling of excavations, etc., required; failure to comply with
section.
Section
4-1025   Guard rails, signal lights, etc., at excavations.
Section
4-1026   Supervision and inspection of work.
Section
4-1027   Fees to be paid into general fund.
Section
4-1028   Penalty for violation.
Section
4-1029   through 4-1030 reserved.
ARTICLE C Street Naming
(Reserved)
ARTICLE A
Acceptance and Improvement of Public Streets
Section 4-1001 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions and rules of
construction shall apply to the words and phrases used herein:
   Front footage. "Front footage" shall be determined to be that portion of the
perimeter of the property owner's property which abuts on the right-of-way or
easement where the public improvement is installed.
   Petition. The word "petition" shall mean any written document wherein is
contained a request from a property owner for public improvements.
   Public improvement. The term "public improvement" shall mean any water,
sewer, street, sidewalk, or storm drainage installation of a new construction
nature.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7- 1)
   Cross Reference: Charter provisions on street improvements, Charter, Section
4-1 et seq. Street and sidewalk use and regulation, section
6-2001 et seq. Excavation and repair, section
6-1011 et seq.
Section 4-1002 Petition generally.
   Before any public improvement is begun, a petition shall be submitted to the
Town Manager for presentation to the Board. The petition shall be submitted on
a form furnished by the Town and it shall be signed by both husband and wife.
Such petition shall contain the following information: Location of the
improvement as accurately as possible; nature and size of the improvement;
statement that property owners are willing to pay the assessment cost as
prescribed in this article; and signatures of property owners involved,
together with the exact front footage which each owns. The sufficiency of any
petition will be judged by the requirements of this article.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7-2)
Section 4-1003 Rights-of-way or easements required.
   No public improvement shall be constructed by the town except upon public
rights-of-way or easements dedicated to the Town. Such rights-of-way or
easements shall be required to be furnished to the Town at no expense to the
Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7-3)
Section 4-1004 Cost sharing by Town and property owners.
   It shall be the policy of the Town to participate in the cost of any public
improvement to the extent of one-third (1/3) of the total cost of any project.
The remaining two-thirds (2/3) of such cost shall be shared equally by the
property owners abutting on the improvement on a pro rata basis based upon
front footage of the property owner's respective lot.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7-4)
Section 4-1005 Assessments.
   (a)   Payment. Property owners shall be required to pay assessments for
public improvements at a rate of one-fifth ( 1/5) for year starting 30 days
from the date of the adoption of the assessment roll, except that a property
owner may pay the unpaid balance at any time he desires.
   (b)   Interest on deferred assessments. Deferred assessments shall bear
interest at the rate of six per cent (6%) for annum on the unpaid balance
beginning 30 days from the date of adoption of the assessment roll.
   (c)   Recurrence. It shall be the policy of the Town to assess for a public
improvement one time only in any given location. All cost of maintenance and
replacement shall thereafter be borne by the Town.
   (d)   Relief. The Board shall have power to relieve assessments where use of
the improvement is forever impossible by the property owner.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7-5)
Cross Reference: Public improvement assessments generally, section
4-1 et seq. of Charter. Adjustment, release or remission of assessments.
Related Local Laws, page L-1.
Section 4-1006 Adoption of resolution contrary to article.
   The Mayor and Board of Aldermen may, upon unanimous vote of all members
present, adopt a resolution contrary to this article which finds as a fact that
the public necessity of the whole population of tho Town or the purposes of the
Town government would be unduly hampered by the strict enforcement of this
article. Upon the adoption of such a resolution, the Board may order such
public improvements as may be required for the public convenience and in such
manner as the Board may prescribe. The following shall be examples, but not
exclusive. of the types of construction which this section permits: Outfall
sewer lines to a treatment plant; water mains to serve the entire population of
the Town; major thoroughfares and traffic loops.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7-6)
Section 4-1007 Street improvements.
   (a)   Sufficiency of petition. A petition for street improvements shall be
deemed sufficient when the petition contains the signatures of the owners of
fifty-one per cent (51%) of the total front footage abutting on the proposed
improvement.
   (b)   Minimum right-of-way. No street improvements shall be made on any
right-of-way less than 30 feet in width, except those owned by the Town on May
10. 1960.
   (c)   Prerequisites to acceptance of street. No street shall be accepted by
the Town unless the same has been opened, graded properly, graveled, and a
petition obtained for the paving, curbing and guttering thereof. Such street
shall also have a right-of-way of not less than 30 feet in width.
   (d)   Town to bear entire cost of excess street widths. It shall be the
policy of the Town to bear the entire cost of a street improvement for all
street widths in excess of 30 feet. It is the purpose of this subsection to
limit the property owner's responsibility to that width which serves as a
residential street. with the Town bearing the cost of excess street widths
which constitute major thoroughfares.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7-16)
Section 4-1008 Sidewalk improvement.
   (a)   Sufficiency of petition. A petition for sidewalk improvements shall be
deemed sufficient when it shall contain the signatures of the owners of fifty-
one per cent (51%) of the property abutting directly on the proposed
improvement.
   (b)   Width. The sidewalk width shall be such as may be agreed upon by the
property owners involved and the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 7-17)
   Cross Reference: Charter provisions on street improvements, Charter, section
4-1 et seq. Street and sidewalk use and regulation, section
6-2001 et seq. Excavation and repair, section
6-1001 et seq. Sewer improvements, section
5-1001 et seq.
Section 4-1009 through 4-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Excavation and Repair
Section 4-1021 Permit to dig in streets.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public
place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or
for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the
Town manager or some other officer of the Town vested with authority to grant
the same. Provided, that a permit shall not be required where such work is
performed under a contract with the Town but in the event that It becomes
necessary to such work that a sidewalk or street must be wholly or partially
obstructed, the person shall notify the manager, the public works department
and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or
street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15 21)
Section 4-1022 Application for permit; fees.
   All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or
sidewalk, as set forth in section 41021, shall make written application
therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening,
the purpose thereof and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be
cut. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee. The fee required for
making any opening in any street or sidewalk shall be as established by the
Board and maintained on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
Section 4-1023 Indemnity agreement required of applicant; Town's liability.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in sections 41021 and 41022
herein agrees, as a condition of the issuance of said permit to indemnify and
hold harmless the Town against any claims or expenses, including attorney's
fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising
out of the person's operations, excluding only the liability of the Town for
its sole negligence except in connection with general supervision of work
performed by said person.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-23)
Section 4-1024 Refilling of excavations, etc., required; failure to comply with
section.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the
Town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making such excavation
or opening shall have the duty of refilling such excavation or opening so as to
restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the
excavation or opening and such refilling shall be done in accordance with the
standards and specifications issued by the director of public works or his duly
authorized representative. Any person, firm or corporation, neglecting,
refusing, or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a violation thereof; and where such neglect, refusal or failure is
continued, after notice from the said director of public works or his
authorized representative, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1963, Sec. 10-24)
Section 4-1025 Guard rails, signal lights, etc., at excavations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtain a permit
under the sections of this article to do any excavation of any kind which may
create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or
public place of the Town without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and
signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the same, sufficient to warn
the public of such excavation or work, and to protect all persons using
reasonable care from injuries on account of the same.
(Code 1963, Sec. 10-25)
Section 4-1026 Supervision and inspection of work.
   All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places of
the Town shall be under the supervision and control of the director of public
works, or an individual appointed by the Manager, whose duty it shall be to
inspect the same from time to time during the progress thereof. Upon the
completion thereof, he shall make a final inspection and see that the street,
sidewalk or public place is restored to a condition as good in all respects as
before the excavation or work was made or done, and that all debris, materials,
tools and equipment are removed therefrom. Any person refusing or failing to
comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty of a violation
thereof; and where such failure or refusal is continued after notice from the
director of public works or designated official, every day's continuance shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-26)
Section 4-1027 Fees to be paid into general fund.
   All fees collected under the provisions of this article shall be paid into
the general fund.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-27)
Section 4-1028 Penalty for violation.
   All persons found guilty of violation of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than S 50.00 or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-29)
Section 4-1029 through 41030 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Street Naming
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 2
Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal
Section
4-2001   Definitions.
Section
4-2002   Receptacles required.
Section
4-2003   Construction of receptacles; covers; handles.
Section
4-2004   Maximum capacity of receptacle.
Section
4-2005   Location and maintenance.
Section
4-2006   Disposition of defective receptacles.
Section
4-2007   Preparation for collection.
Section
4-2008   Not to be placed so as to interfere with use of street or sidewalk.
Section
4-2009   Frequency of removal and removal charges.
Section
4-2010   Tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery; leaves; removal of tree stumps.
Section
4-2011   Discarded appliances and similar objects.
Cross-reference: Accumulation constituting a nuisance, see Section
8-6015.
Section 4-2001 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them:
   Combustible waste. Includes yard trimmings, rags, waste wood, cardboard, and
other combustible waste solids of a nonvolatile or nonexplosive nature.
   Garbage. Any animal or vegetable waste solids resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooling or consumption of foods.
   Noncombustible waste. All solid waste material which does not burn.
   Refuse. Garbage and combustible and noncombustible waste solids.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-1)
Section 4-2002 Receptacles required.
   (a)   The owner, agent, lessee, tenant or occupant of every dwelling or
other premises where refuse accumulates shall provide and keep on such premises
receptacles for receiving and holding refuse. At least one such receptacle
shall be provided for each family unit or other occupant of the premises.
   (b)   Any business establishment or person which requires the use of a
dumpster of two to six yards, must furnish their own dumpster and said dumpster
must meet the specifications of the sanitation truck used by the Town. A copy
of the specifications will be on file in the Clerk's Office in the Municipal
Building.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-2) (Amended by Ord. of 6/30/92)
Section 4-2003 Construction of receptacles; covers, handles.
   Each receptacle required by Section
4-2002 shall be constructed of metal or plastic and so constructed as to
prevent spilling or leakage of its contents. Each such receptacle shall be
watertight and shall be equipped with a tight-fitting cover which shall be kept
in place at all times when the receptacle is not being filled or emptied. Each
such receptacle shall also be equipped with a pull handle or handles.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-3)
Section 4-2004 Maximum capacity of receptacle.
   Each receptacle required by Section
4-2002(a) shall have a capacity of not more than 30 gallons each. Dumpsters
required by Section
4-2002(b) shall have a capacity of two yards to six yards.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-4) (Amended by Ord. of 6/30/92)
Section 4-2005 Location and maintenance.
   (a)   Receptacles required by Section
4-2002(a) shall be located on the premises at least 20 feet back from the
street curb on the front and 20 feet back from the side boundaries, for storage
of refuse, and maintained in such manner as to prevent the creation of a
nuisance or menace to public health.
   (b)   Dumpsters required by Section
4-2002(b) shall be located at a convenient and accessible place.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-5) (Amended by Ord. of 1/14/86; Ord. of 6/30/92)
Section 4-2006 Disposition of defective receptacles.
   Refuse receptacles which are badly broken or otherwise fail to meet the
requirements of this chapter may be classed as refuse and collected and
disposed of as such by the person or agency responsible for the collection of
refuse.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-6)
Section 4-2007 Preparation for collection.
   Refuse accumulated or produced in the Town and to be collected by the Town
shall be prepared as follows:
   (1)   Garbage. Garbage shall be thoroughly and completely drained of all
liquids, wrapped securely in paper and placed in a receptacle meeting the
requirements of this chapter.
   (2)   Paper. Paper shall be securely and properly tied into bundles or other
packages in such manner as to prevent any scattering while awaiting or during
collection. The bundles or packages shall be of a size and weight to permit
ease of handling by one man.
   (3)   Waste not deposited in receptacles. Combustible or noncombustible
waste of such a nature that it cannot be deposited in a receptacle required by
this chapter shall be securely and properly tied into bundles or packages to
prevent spilling or scattering and placed in an accessible place near the
sidewalk or street. The bundles or packages or other containers shall be of a
size and weight to permit ease of handling by one man, or shall be assembled in
quantities weighing not more than 50 pounds.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-7)
Section 4-2008 Not to be placed so as to interfere with use of street or
sidewalk.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to put or place, or allow or permit to
be put or placed, any refuse on the street or sidewalk or near enough there to
that it will interfere with the free use of and passage on the street or
sidewalk.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-8)
   Cross Reference: Street and sidewalk obstructions generally, section
6-2001 et seq.
Section 4-2009 Frequency of removal and removal charges.
   (a)   Garbage and refuse shall be removed from business and residential
property by the Town forces at such intervals and on such schedules as may be
fixed from time to time by the Board. The charges to be collected by the Town
for garbage and refuse removal service shall be such as prescribed by the Board
from time to time.
(Code 1963, Sec. 9-9)
   (b)   In accordance with the provisions of G.S. 160A-314, fees incurred by
the Town for the disposal of any solid waste shall be charged to the water/
sewer/garbage account of the customer ordering the disposal. Disposal fees
shall be listed separately from the other services. Failure to pay for the
disposal fees shall be treated in accordance with the uniform policy for
nonpayment of water and sewer bills.
(Ord. of 7/9/02)
   State Law Reference: Authority of Town to regulate removal of trash and
garbage and to make charges therefor, G.S. 160A-192.
Section 4-2010   Tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery; leaves; removal of tree
stumps.
   (a)   The Town will attempt to collect tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery, and
the like from each residence of the Town on an as needed as called basis;
however, during leaf season, this service will likely be curtailed to allow the
collection of leaves. This service shall be limited to the amount of tree
limbs, cuttings, shrubbery, and the like that a typical resident shall produce
in normal yard work and is not a service provided to a landscaping firm or to a
private tree company or to individuals who are paid to trim trees, redo
landscaping or perform major yard work. Such debris produced by these firms
shall not be collected by the Town, and the property owner or tenant shall be
responsible for the cost of removal and disposal of such material. Volumes of
more than one truckload or volumes which will take more than 30 minutes to load
will not be collected without a charge to the customer. Excess volumes or time
shall be billed at the rates prescribed and changed from time to time by the
Board of Aldermen and kept on file at the Town Clerk's office. In any case,
such limbs, cuttings, shrubbery and the like shall not be greater than six feet
in length, nor more than three inches in diameter nor of such a weight that it
may not be handled by one person. This debris is to be placed along the edge of
the owner's or tenant's property nearest the street right-of-way, with cut ends
facing the street, and shall not block any sidewalk or be in the street where
vehicles might be prohibited from safe passage. Tree limbs and yard trimmings
shall be free of trash, dirt, wire or anything that could damage chipping
equipment. Lawn trimmings shall be placed in boxes, cans or bags for pickup and
the weight of a single container device shall not exceed 30 pounds. Machine
piled material, logs and/or stumps shall not be collected. Material addressed
in this section shall not be placed in the street or in gutters or drainage
ways so as to inhibit storm drainage or so that the material might wash into or
block catch basins.
   (b)   The Town shall at no time remove or assist in the removal of stumps
resulting from the clearing of property of any kind.
   (c)   In situations where there is danger for Town employees or concern for
the safety of the motoring public, the street superintendent, at his or her
discretion, may authorize the collection of any permitted materials from a
point off the street rights-of-way and out of the path of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. of 9/27/05)
Section 4-2011   Discarded appliances and similar objects.
   It shall be the duty of the property owner who wishes to dispose of
discarded appliances such as water heaters, stoves, electronic appliances and
any other items too large to be hauled by a regular garbage truck to call the
street/sanitation department and request a special pickup. This is a service
provided to residential customers in the normal replacement of home appliances,
and shall not be provided to establishments which are in the business of
selling and allowing trade-ins of such appliances.
(Ord. of 9/27/05)
CHAPTER 3
Municipally Owned Cemeteries
(Reserved)
   Cross Reference: Regulation, establishment of cemeteries, Charter, section
4-10.
CHAPTER 4
Sanitary Landfill
Section
4-4001   Restriction to waste originating in County.
Section
4-4002   Fees for solid waste disposal.
Section
4-4003   Town landfill to accept tires on fee basis.
Section
4-4004   Capital Reserve Fund.
Section 4-4001   Restriction to waste originating in County.
   The Town sanitary landfill is restricted to non-hazardous solid waste
originating in Haywood County. It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
waste which originated outside the County in the Town landfill.
(Ord. of 8/12/86; as amended by Ord. of 8/26/86)
Section 4-4002   Fees for solid waste disposal.
   (a)     User fees are charged for the disposal of solid waste at the Town's
landfill.
   (b)    The fee for disposal at said facilities shall be at the following
rates:
   (1)   $23 per ton of solid waste;
   (2)   Minimum rate to be $2 for automobiles and station wagons;
   (3)   Minimum rate to be $4 for pickup trucks;
   (4)   Champion International is to be excepted from these rates; and
   (5)   These rates may be changed from time to time by the Mayor and the
Board of Aldermen without the adoption of an ordinance.
   (c)    Businesses and commercial carriers hauling regular loads daily would
be required to fill out an application at the Town Hall in order to be billed
for
landfill use; all others would be cash only at the time of dumping waste.
Short-term contract haulers shall make a $100 deposit.
   (d)   Residential customers living within the Town limits and having solid
waste originating inside the Town limits may obtain a pass to deposit debris in
the landfill free of charge.
(Ord. of 8/25/87; as amended by Ord. of 6/26/90; as amended by Ord. of 7/29/92)
Section 4-4003   Town landfill to accept tires on fee basis.
   The Town landfill will accept tires beginning April 1, 1989, according to
the fee schedule below:
$1.00 per tire -   Car and light truck tires: Highway car/truck tires, under 20
inches in diameter. You unload in designated area.
$2.00 per tire -   Truck tires: 20 inches and over, 10.0020 to 1124.5, you
unload in designated area.
$9.00 per tire -   Larger tires: Duplex tires (double width), tractor tires (12
ply or less), you unload in designated area.
Tires not accepted: Tires 4 feet in diameter and over (quote basis only). No
shredded tires (at this time). No foam filled tires. No solid tires (forklift).
No laminated tires.
Section 4-4004 Capital Reserve Fund.
   (a)   The Board of Aldermen hereby creates a Capital Reserve Fund for the
purpose of setting funds aside to be used for major expenditures on landfill
equipment or improvements to the landfill.
   (b)   This Fund will remain operational until the Board considers it
unnecessary or the funds have been disbursed.
   (c)   A portion of landfill fees received will serve as the source of
revenue for the Capital Reserve Fund.
(Ord. of 10/10/89)
PART 5
Municipal Utilities
CHAPTER 1
Water Supply and Distribution
ARTICLE A Water System
Section
5-1001   Board to regulate water system.
Section
5-1002   Permit for connection required.
Section
5-1003   Separate connections required.
Section
5-1004   Water and sewer required.
Section
5-1005   Use of Town water.
Section
5-1006   Water rates.
Section
5-1007   Tampering with or obstructing water lines prohibited.
Section
5-1008   Work on water and sewer system.
Section
5-1009   Owners of more than one house.
Section
5-1010   Non-payment of bills.
Section
5-1011   Sewer Extension Policy.
Section
5-1012   Sewer Use Ordinance.
Section
5-1013   Water Conservation Plan.
Section 5-1014 through 5-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE B Other Provisions
Section
5-1021   Mobile homes.
Section
5-1022   through 5-1030 reserved.
ARTICLE A
Water System
Section 5-1001 Board to regulate water system.
   The water system of the Town shall be under the control of, and the duty of
prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with all the rules and regulations
governing all connections with the public sewer and water system shall be
vested in, the Board or its authorized agent.
Section 5-1002 Permit for connection required.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall connect with the water system of the
Town until they shall have made application for permission to so connect in
writing to the Town Clerk, and this application shall be made before any part
of the drainage system of the house or other connection shall have been laid or
constructed. Such application shall be accompanied with a plan or drawing
showing the location of the building and the entire proposed connection from
the public sewerage line through the building to its terminus, showing the
location of all the fixtures, traps, ventilating pipes, etc., and shall state
the name of the street and the name of the person, firm or corporation.
   Cross Reference: Powers and duties of Board relative to water and sewer
systems, Charter, Section
4-9.
Section 5-1003 Separate connections required.
   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall install
a separate water and sewer connection.
Section 5-1004 Water and sewer required.
   All owners of improved property located within the corporate limits and upon
or within a reasonable distance of any water line owned and operated by the
Town shall connect their premises with the Town water system.
Section 5-1005 Use of Town water.
   (a)   No consumer will be allowed to supply or sell water to other persons,
families or corporations, nor shall any person take or carry away water from
any hydrant, watering trough, or public fountain. This shall not be construed
to prevent the free use of Town water by authorized Town personnel for
municipal purposes.
   (b)   The fire hydrants are for the use of the Fire Department for fighting
fires, and are not to be used by any unauthorized person for any purpose
without permission from the Board.
Section 5-1006 Water rates.
   (a)   Water rates and water connection charges shall be determined from time
to time by the Board and shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than a person authorized
by the Town officials, to turn on the Town supply of water.
   (b)   Any building or structure containing more than one business or one
dwelling unit that does not have a separate water meter for each business or
dwelling unit shall be charged and billed a minimum service fee for each
business or dwelling unit. The charges may be listed on a master bill showing
the cost of the minimums as well as the consumption fee above the minimums.
(Amended by Ord. of 10/23/01)
Section 5-1007 Tampering with or obstructing water lines prohibited.
   No person shall touch, tamper, or in any manner manipulate or turn the
cutoffs on the water mains forming a part of the water system of the Town, nor
shall any person tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any water line,
main or any appurtenance thereto. No person shall throw or deposit any material
or substance in any water line that will in any manner obstruct such line.
Section 5-1008 Work on water and sewer system.
   All work on the water system and all connections and disconnections thereto
shall be performed by the authorized employees of the Town or their
representatives or plumbers approved by the Town. All work shall be performed
in accordance with the plumbing code of the State and the Town and such
amendments thereto that the Board may from time to time adopt.
Section 5-1009 Owners of more than one house.
   Any property owner having more than one house using water from the same
watertap shall be responsible for water bills for all the houses.
Section 5-1010 Nonpayment of bills.
   (a)   Under uniform policies established by the Board, service shall be cut
off to premises where bills for water and sewer service are not paid in a
timely manner.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut the Town water back on when
the same has been cut off by the Town official for the non-payment of any water
bill or account due the Town.
   (c)   When the water that is being used by any person, firm or corporation
has been cut off because of the non-payment of the water account, such person,
firm or corporation shall pay a fee fixed by the Board and kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk before such water shall be turned back on.
   State Law Reference: Disconnection authorized for nonpayment, G.S. 160A-314.
Section 5-1011 Sewer Extension Policy.
   (a)   Any new service connection to the town's water system outside the
corporate limits shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Water service to any new customers other than individual single-
family residential uses shall be subject to approval of the Town Planning
Board;
      (2)   Water service to new residential subdivisions shall be considered
only when the subdivision meets the requirements of the Town Subdivision
Ordinance;
      (3)   New water service to lots containing a manufactured home shall be
considered only if the manufactured home meets the appearance criteria
contained in the Manufactured Home Overlay District in the Town Zoning
Ordinance. However, any manufactured home receiving water from the Town as of
the effective date of this policy and not meeting the appearance criteria of
the Town Zoning Ordinance, will not be affected. However, if it is replaced
with another mobile home, it must meet the appearance criteria contained in the
Manufactured Home Overlay District of the Town Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   No single-wide trailers will receive water and sewer from the Town.
Water associations may establish policies for distribution by their elected
boards concerning mobile homes. New residential subdivisions must meet the
requirements of the Town Subdivision Ordinance.
   (b)   Those portions of the Sewer Extension Policy on file in the Office of
the Mayor and Board of Aldermen not in conflict with existing provisions above
are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. of 9/10/96; Amended by Ord. of 3/27/01)
Section 5-1012 Sewer Use Ordinance.
   The Sewer Use Ordinance on file in the Office of the Mayor and Board of
Alderman is hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. of 3/27/01)
Section 5-1013 Water Conservation Plan.
   The Water Conservation Plan on file in the Office of the Mayor and Board of
Alderman is hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. of 3/27/01)
Section 5-1014 through 5-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Other Provisions
Section 5-1021 Mobile homes.
   (a)   Mobile home parks (as defined in Part 9, Chapter 4) shall meet all
requirements contained in the Zoning Ordinance for mobile home parks.
   (b)   Mobile homes (as defined in Part 9, Chapter 4) located outside mobile
home parks shall meet the following requirements:
   (1)   Front, side, and rear yard setbacks shall meet the requirements of the
General Residential District Zone as specified in Article VII of the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (2)   When the municipal sewage collection system is not utilized, an
improvements permit must be obtained from the County Health Department,
indicating that the lot on which the mobile home is to be placed is suitable
for use of the proposed sewage treatment system. However, no lot shall be less
than 7,000 square feet.
   (3)   The mobile home shall be underpinned from its bottom to the ground and
for the entire perimeter of the mobile home. The underpinning shall consist of
masonry, brick, non-corrosive metal, or any other material approved by the
Building Inspector.
   (4)   The mobile home shall be placed on a stand that shall be improved to
provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of the mobile home. The
stand shall not heave, shift, or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile
home due to frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration, wind, or other force
activity on the structure.
   (5)   Anchors or tie-downs, such as cast-in-place concrete "dead-men,"
eyelets imbedded in concrete, screw augers, or arrow head anchors, shall be
placed at each corner of the mobile home stand and at intervals and of such
strength as required to conform to the requirements of the North Carolina State
Building Code.
   (6)   Sufficient information shall be supplied to the Building Inspector to
determine whether the provisions of this policy have been met. If an
improvement permit from the County Health Department is required, no inspection
shall be made until the Building Inspector has received a copy of the permit.
   (c)   If the Building Inspector shall determine that any violations of this
policy exist, he shall give written notice of such violations to the owner of
the mobile home and/or mobile home park. If, after a reasonable time, to be
determined by the Building Inspector, such violations are not corrected, water
service from the Town shall be terminated.
Section 5-1022 through 5-1030 reserved.
CHAPTER 2
Sewerage Collection and Disposal
ARTICLE A Sewer System
Section
5-2001   Board to regulate sewer system.
Section
5-2002   Separate connections required.
Section
5-2003   Water and sewer required.
Section
5-2004   Sewer rates.
Section
5-2005   Tampering with or obstructing sewer lines prohibited.
Section
5-2006   Work on sewer system.
Section
5-2007   Commercial establishments.
Section
5-2008   through 5-2010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Use of Sanitary Sewer
(Reserved)
ARTICLE A
Sewer System
Section 5-2001 Board to regulate sewer system.
   The sewer system of the Town shall be under the control of, and the duty of
prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with all the rules and regulations
governing all connections with the public sewer and water system shall be
vested in, the Board or its authorized agent.
   Cross Reference: Powers and duties of Board relative to water and sewer
system, Charter, section
4-9.
Section 5-2002 Separate connections required.
   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall install
a separate sewer connection.
Section 5-2003 Water and sewer required.
   (a)   All owners of improved property located within the corporate limits
and upon or within a reasonable distance of any sewer collection line owned and
operated by the Town shall connect their premises with the Town sewer system.
   (b)   Upon completion of any extension of the public sanitary system of the
Town, the clerk may be directed to
send notice to the owners of property which can thereby be served to make
connection with said system.
   (c)   The charge made for the cost of the connection to the public sanitary
sewer system shall be paid to the Town prior to the time such connection is
made.
   (d)   No outdoor privies may be hereafter constructed on or near any sewer
line, and the Board may require and enforce immediate abandonment of any such
privy.
   State Law Reference: Authority to require connections, G.S. 160A-317.
Section 5-2004 Sewer rates.
   Sewer connection charges shall be determined from time to time by the Board
and shall be kept on file in the office of the clerk.
Section 5-2005 Tampering with or obstructing sewer lines prohibited.
   No person shall tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any sewer line,
main or any appurtenance thereto. No person shall throw or deposit any material
or substance in any sewer line that will in any manner obstruct such line.
Section 5-2006 Work on sewer system.
   All work on the sewer system and all connections or disconnections there to
shall be performed by the authorized employees of the Town or their
representatives or plumbers approved by the Town. All work shall be performed
in accordance with the plumbing code of the State and the Town and such
amendments thereto that the Board may from time to time adopt.
Section 5-2007 Commercial establishments.
   All commercial establishments that deposit or may deposit grease, oil, sand,
or similar materials that create blockages in the sewer system shall at their
own expense install an inline device, such as a tank-type grease trap, bar
screen, etc., as prescribed and approved by the plumbing inspector. The device
shall be cleaned, pumped, or maintained on a regular schedule or when needed.
The plumbing inspector may determine a maintenance schedule and require
documentation, records, or reports of the maintenance performed.
(Ord. of 10/10/00)
Section 5-2008 through 5-2010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Use of Sanitary Sewer
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 3
Water and Sewer Extensions
Section
5-3001   Application for and approval of extensions required.
Section
5-3002   General extension requirements.
Section
5-3003   Financing extensions within corporate limits.
Section
5-3004   Financing extensions outside corporate limits.
Section
5-3005   Specifications, ownership.
Section
5-3006   Additional subdivision improvement requirement.
Section
5-3007   Extension of water and or sewer service beyond municipal limits
Section 5-3001 Application for and approval of extensions required.
   (a)   Any property owner, or owners, desiring water or sanitary sewer
service shall apply in writing to the Board requesting the extension of water
or sanitary sewer service or both. No request for the extension of services
shall be considered unless submitted in writing in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   The Town may require the applicant to submit as part of the written
application such information, plans or other data as may be required to
adequately determine if the requirements of this article are to be met.
   (c)   When application is made for a water or sewer extension or both to
serve an area or development that is planned as part of a larger development
project or subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time
application is made, the owner or owners shall submit plans in sufficient
detail in order to determine the size and type facilities which will be
necessary to serve the entire development or subdivision when completed.
   (d)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the Town shall
be made and no application shall be approved except in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
Section 5-3002 General extension requirements.
   All extensions of either water or sanitary sewer service shall be governed
by the following:
   (1)   The minimum distance for any extension of a water main or sanitary
sewer main shall be determined by the Board. In general, the minimum distance
for extensions shall be one (1) platted block, or in the case of water mains
from main line valve to valve and in the case of sanitary sewer extension from
manhole to manhole.
   (2)   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and
the other required system facilities shall be determined by the Board in
accordance with the recognized standards and accepted engineering practices and
design and in accordance with applicable system plans adopted by the Board.
Section 5-3003 Financing extensions within corporate limits.
   (a)   Extensions to Approved Subdivisions or Developed Property.
   (1)   When application is received requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service or both to serve property within the corporate limits
which is developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision, or where
streets have previously been dedicated and accepted by the Town, and where such
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the Town,
the Manager or other person designated by the Manager shall estimate the cost
of the project and present the application for such extension, the estimated
cost and other required information to the Board for approval. If the
application is approved by the Board and subject to the availability of funds,
the Town will install or have installed by contract under its supervision the
extensions which have been approved, and such extension shall be financed in
accordance with this subsection.
   (2)   When an approved water or sanitary sewer extension project has been
completed and the total cost thereof has been determined,              percent
of the total cost of such water or sanitary sewer extension or both shall be
assessed against the property owners whose property abuts upon such extension
at an equal rate per front foot in accordance with and under the authority
granted to the Town by G.S. 160A-216 et seq. The remaining            percent
of the total cost of such extensions shall be borne by the Town from funds
appropriated for this purpose.
   (3)   Any property owner or owners shall have the opportunity to pay his or
their proportionate share of the cost of such extensions after the assessment
roll is confirmed rather than paying his or their share in equal annual
installments with interest as required by the statute.
   (b)   Extensions to Proposed Developments or Subdivisions.
   (1)   When an application is received requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service or both to proposed developments or subdivisions within
the corporate limits which have not been approved by the Board, the Manager or
other person designated by the Board shall estimate the cost of the project and
present the application for such extension, the estimated cost and other
required information to the Board for their approval. If the application is
approved and subject to the approval of the development or subdivision by the
Town, and subject to the availability of funds, the Town will install or have
installed by contract under its supervision such extensions which shall be
financed in accordance with this subsection.
   (2)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the property owner or
owners shall advance to the Town funds in an amount equal to                 
percent of the total estimated cost of the proposed extensions. Upon receipt of
such funds, a written contract shall be entered into by and between the Town
and the property owner or owners, under which the Town will use such funds upon
the following terms and conditions.
   a.   The funds shall be deposited in a special account of the Town for which
a separate accounting will be made.
   b.   At the time construction of the extension is completed and the total
cost thereof is determined, if the amount deposited exceeds                
percent of the total cost, that portion in excess of the amount deposited will
be refunded to the owner or owners without interest. If the amount deposited is
less than                  percent of the total cost, the owner or owners shall
pay such additional amount to the Town and this condition shall be a part of
the written contract.
   c.   In lieu of depositing the required funds, the owner or owners may
provide a surety bond or some other form of security that will insure payment
to the Town of the owner's or owners' proportionate share of the cost of
extension in accordance with this chapter.
   d.   No refund or reimbursement of funds shall be made to the owner or
owners who pay               percent of the total cost of extension under the
requirements of this subsection except as provided for in paragraph b. above.
   (3)   The Town will finance from funds appropriated for this purpose the
remaining              percent of the total cost of extension to and within
such proposed developments or subdivisions.
   (c)   Facilities Excluded in Determining Owner's Share of Cost.
   (1)   When the Town determines that it is advisable to install larger size
facilities than are necessary to serve the property requesting such extension,
the difference in the cost of the larger size facilities over and above the
cost of the facilities required to serve the property requesting such extension
shall be paid for by the Town and excluded from the total cost to be shared by
the property owner and the Town as provided for herein.
   (2)   Fire hydrants, pumping stations, and other system facilities installed
for general public use which are expressly identified in the application or
agreement approved by the Board shall be paid for by the Town and excluded from
the total cost to be shared by the property owner or owners as provided for
herein.
   (d)   Exceptions Authorized.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Board from extending water or
sanitary sewer mains or both within the corporate limits on their own motion
without receipt of an application from property owners, and to assess the cost
of such extensions in accordance with subsection (a) of section
5-3003 of this chapter when, in the opinion of the Board, the general public
interest demands such extension of service.
Section 5-3004 Financing extensions outside corporate limits.
   (a)   All applications for water and sewer extensions outside the corporate
limits shall be made in the same manner and under the same requirements as
provided for in sections
5-3001 and
5-3002 of this chapter.
   (b)   If an application is approved by the Board, the owner or owners shall
be required to pay              percent of the total cost of all extensions.
Provided, the Town may participate to the extent agreed upon by the Board in
the cost of larger size mains that are in excess of the size mains required to
serve the project. No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation and all water
and sewer lines connected to the Town system and located outside the corporate
limits shall become the property of the Town at the time such facilities are
connected.
   (c)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the owner or owners shall
deposit with the Town funds in an amount equal to                 percent of
the total estimated cost of such extensions. Upon receipt of such funds a
written contract shall be entered into by and between the Town and the property
owner or owners in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Such
contract shall provide that in the event the funds deposited exceed the amount
of the total extension cost when completed, then that portion in excess of the
total cost will be refunded to the owner or owners without interest. Such
contract shall also provide that if the amount deposited is less than the total
cost, when completed, the owner or owners shall pay such additional amount to
the Town.
   (d)   In lieu of depositing funds the owner or owners may execute a surety
bond guaranteeing payment for such extension or the owner or owners may have
such extension work performed under private contract with the approval of the
Board, provided, the work is to be performed in accordance with all
construction requirements of the Town and subject to inspection and approval of
the Town.
   (e)   In the event the property for which application has been made for
water or sewer service is continuous to the corporate limits and the owner or
owners of such property agree to annexation and in the event such property is
annexed to the Town, extensions may be made to such property and the cost
thereof financed in accordance with the requirements of section
5-3003(a) or
5-3003(b) of this chapter, whichever is applicable.
Section 5-3005 Specifications, ownership.
   Any water mains or sanitary sewer mains extended under the provisions of
this chapter shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the approved
plans, specifications and other requirements of the Town. All facilities
installed under the provisions of this chapter, whether within or outside the
corporate limits shall become the sole property of the Town and under its
jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes whatsoever at the time such
facilities are connected to the Town system. When required, the property owner
or owners shall grant to the Town such utility easements as the Town may
require. In addition, a deed to the Town for water and/or sewer facilities
installed which are located outside the corporate limits, the cost of which is
borne by individual property owners, shall be executed prior to the time any
extensions provided for in this chapter are connected to the Town systems.
Section 5-3006 Additional subdivision improvement requirement.
   The Board may in its discretion, as a condition under which water or sewer
service or both will be extended, require the owner or owners of a proposed
subdivision to enter into an agreement to improve the proposed streets therein
at their own expense and in accordance with the ordinances then in force
governing the acceptance of public streets for the Town. If required, this
section shall apply to subdivisions which are located either within or outside
the corporate limits of the Town.
Section 5-3007 Extension of water and or sewer service beyond municipal limits.
   No water and or sewer service shall be provided to any property outside of
the municipal limits of the Town and no subdivision plat shall be recorded for
any property outside the municipal limits for which water and or sewer service
will be provided except upon compliance with one of the following conditions:
   (a)   If the property is contiguous to the municipal limits of the Town or
if it is not contiguous but meets the requirements of a satellite annexation
(G.S. §§ 160A-58 through 160A-58.6), prior to receiving water and or sewer
service or recording a subdivision plat, the property owners shall irrevocably
petition for annexation of the property into the municipal limits of the Town.
Subsequent action shall be at the discretion of the Town Board.
   (b)   If the property is not contiguous to the municipal limits of the Town
and satellite annexation cannot be accomplished, or it is not approved by the
Town Board of Aldermen, the property owners shall enter into a binding written
agreement with the Town for the annexation thereof at such future date as the
property shall be contiguous to the municipal limits of the Town or meets the
requirements of a satellite annexation, as is approved by the Town Board of
Aldermen.
   (c)   The above requirements shall not exempt any property owner(s) from
other building, zoning, subdivision, or ordinance requirement(s) as proscribed
by the Town of Canton.
(Ord. of 10/28/08)
CHAPTER 4
Reimbursement Agreements
Section
5-4001   Intent and purpose; authority.
Section
5-4002   Jurisdiction.
Section
5-4003   Full force and effect.
Section
5-4004   Interpretation and intent.
Section
5-4005   Funding.
Section 5-4001 Intent and purpose, authority.
   (a)   The Town of Canton Board of Aldermen/women believes infrastructure
projects are essential to promote the creation and attraction of new
businesses, expansion and retention of existing business to stimulate job
opportunities and to improve the quality of life in Canton. Providing resources
for economic development projects can increase local sales and property tax
base of the Town of Canton, Haywood County and possibly surrounding
municipalities.
   (b)   The purpose of this chapter is to give the Canton Board of Aldermen/
women the authority to enter into Reimbursement Agreements pursuant to G.S. §
160A-499.
(Ord. of 4/7/16)
Section 5-4002 Jurisdiction.
   This chapter is and shall be applicable to all areas within the corporate
limits of Canton, North Carolina.
(Ord. of 4/7/16)
Section 5-4003 Full force and effect.
   If any portion of this chapter shall be determined to be invalid,
unconstitutional or otherwise ineffective, such ruling shall not affect the
remainder and other parts and clauses of this chapter, and the same shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. of 4/7/16)
Section 5-4004 Interpretation and intent.
   (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to conflict with the
provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes. In the event of an ambiguity
or conflict between this Ordinance and the provisions of the North Carolina
General Statutes, the latter shall prevail.
   (b)   The chapter shall not be construed to hold the Town of Canton
responsible for any defect of the developer's or property owner's technical
compliance with G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8.
   (c)   The Town of Canton shall have authority to enter into Reimbursement
Agreements such that a developer or property owner may contract with the Town
of Canton to construct an improvement which, had the Town constructed, would be
subject to competitive bidding regulations under G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8.
Such Reimbursement Agreement authorized by G.S. § 160A-499 shall not be subject
to G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8 except as provided by G.S. § 160A-499. Developer
or property owner who is a party to a Reimbursement Agreement with the Town of
Canton shall solicit bids in accordance with G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8 when
awarding contracts for work that would have required competitive bidding if the
contract had been awarded by the Town of Canton.
   (d)   The Town of Canton is also authorized to participate jointly in
Reimbursement Agreements with other municipalities or counties and a developer
or property owner so long as the project is determined to be in the best
interest of the Town of Canton.
(Ord. of 4/7/16)
Section 5-4005 Funding.
   The Town of Canton may provide for such reimbursements to be paid from any
lawful source, including the Town's unrestricted general fund.
(Ord. of 4/7/16)
PART 6
Licensing and Regulation
CHAPTER 1
Businesses and Trades
ARTICLE A Taxicabs
Section
6-1001   Definition.
Section
6-1002   Insurance or bond requited.
Section
6-1003   Fares; rates prescribed.
Section
6-1004   Rates to be posted in vehicle.
Section
6-1005   Vehicles to be in good mechanical condition; inspection of vehicles.
Section
6-1006   Identifying sign required.
Section
6-1007   Drivers to wear uniforms.
Section
6-1008   Certificate of convenience and necessity required.
Section
6-1009   Application generally.
Section
6-1010   Action of Board on application.
Section
6-1011   Substitution of vehicles.
Section
6-1012   Transfer.
Section
6-1013   Expiration upon failure to begin operations.
Section
6-1014   Duration; renewal.
Section
6-1015   Revocation; grounds.
Section
6-1016   Hearing.
Section
6-1017   Driven permit required.
Section
6-1018   Application generally.
Section
6-1019   Applicant's fingerprints and photograph required.
Section
6-1020   Investigation of facts stated in application.
Section
6-1021   Issuance; circumstances.
Section
6-1022   Display.
Section
6-1023   Expiration and renewal.
Section
6-1024   Revocation.
Section
6-1025   through 6-1030 reserved.
ARTICLE B Sunday Regulations
Section
6-1031   through 6-1040 reserved.
ARTICLE C Billiard Hails
Section
6-1041   Definition.
Section
6-1042   Operating regulations.
Section
6-1043   Exemptions from article.
Section
6-1044   License required.
Section
6-1045   Application generally; payment of license tax.
Section
6-1046   Bond required of applicant.
Section
6-1047   Investigation prerequisite to issuance.
Section
6-1048   Issuance generally.
Section
6-1049   Not to issue to certain persons.
Section
6-1050   Contents; term.
Section
6-1051   Display of license.
Section
6-1052   Not transferable.
Section
6-1053   Revocation.
Section
6-1054   Defacing or destroying license.
Section
6-1055   Duplicate licenses.
Section
6-1056   through 6-1060 reserved.
ARTICLE D Peddling and Soliciting
Section
6-1061   Definitions.
Section
6-1062   Registration.
Section
6-1063   Badge.
Section
6-1064   Harassment prohibited.
Section
6-1065   through 6-1070 reserved.
ARTICLE E Beer and Wine Sales
Section
6-1071   Sunday sale hours
Section
6-1072    through 6-1080 reserved.
ARTICLE F Places of Amusement
Section
6-1081   Coin-operated games or devices.
Section
6-1082   Definition.
Section
6-1083   Licenses required.
Section
6-1084   Restrictions.
Section
6-1085   Prohibited conduct.
Section
6-1016   Rules for operation of game rooms.
Section
6-1017   Revocation of license.
Section
6-1088   Other businesses.
Section
6-1089   Location.
Section
6-1090   reserved.
ARTICLE G Massage and Bodywork Therapy Regulations
Section
6-1091   Purpose and objective.
Section
6-1092   Definitions.
Section
6-1093   Exemptions.
Section
6-1094   Licensing of massage therapists and massage therapy establishments.
Section
6-1095   Hours of operation.
Section
6-1096   Massage of private parts for hire prohibited.
Section
6-1097   Names of employees filed with Chief of Police.
Section
6-1098   Patronage of massage businesses by minors; employment of minors;
massage of persons under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
Section
6-1099   Display of certificate of licensure.
Section
6-1100   Revocation or suspension.
Section
6-1101   Appeals.
Section
6-1102   Annual privilege license.
Section
6-1103   Transference of license prohibited.
Section
6-1104   Penalties.
Section
6-1105 through 6-1110 reserved.
ARTICLE H Tattooing
Section
6-1111   Tattooing may be allowed as a conditional use in the Central Business
(C-1) and General Business (C-2) Zones.
Section
6-1112 through 6-1115 reserved.
ARTICLE I Internet Access/Sweepstakes Providers
Section
6-1116   Application.
Section
6-1117   Regulations.
Section
6-1118   Minors.
Section
6-1119   Violation.
ARTICLE A
Taxicabs
Section 6-1001 Definition.
   When used in this article, the term "taxicab" shall be defined as any motor
vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers operated upon any street or highway on
call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers indiscriminately for hire
between such points along streets or highways as may be directed by the
passenger or passengers so being transported, and shall not include motor
vehicles or motor vehicle carriers as defined by the General Statutes of North
Carolina.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-1)
Section 6-1002 Insurance or bond required.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of
transporting passengers for hire over the public streets of the town to operate
on the public streets of the town any taxicab, except those operated under the
jurisdiction of the State Utilities Commission or those used to carry workers
only and operated on a regular schedule, without furnishing and keeping in
effect for each such taxicab a policy of insurance or surety bond with sureties
whose solvency shall at all times be subject to the approval of the Board. Such
policy of insurance or surety bond shall be conditioned on such operator
responding in damages for any liability incurred on account of any injury to
persons or damage to property resulting from the operation of any such taxicab
upon the streets of the Town in the following amounts:
      (1)   $15,000 for injury to one person in case of one accident.
      (2)   $30,000 for injury to more than one person in one accident.
      (3)   $5,000 for property damaged in any one accident.
   (b)   Such insurance policies or bonds shall be in some insurance company or
surety company licensed and doing business in the state and shall be filed with
the Board as a condition precedent to the operation of any taxicab over the
streets of the town. At the time of the filing of such insurance policies or
bonds, a receipt shall be filed with each insurance policy or bond showing that
the premium on same has been paid in full for a period of at least one year.
   (c)   Each and every insurance policy or surety bond issued and filed in
accordance with this section shall provide that the same shall not be canceled
without first giving five days’ notice of such proposed cancellation to the
Board, in writing, which notice may be given to or through the Town Manager or
Town Clerk.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-2)
Section 6-1003 Fares; rates prescribed.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any taxicab to charge or
collect from any passenger any fare in excess of the rates set from time to
time by the Board and kept on file in the office of the clerk.
Section 6-1004 Rates to be posted in vehicle.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab, or to permit the
operation of a taxicab owned by him, within the corporate limits of the town
unless the rates and/or fares for the use of such vehicle are at all times
posted and displayed in such vehicles so as to be visible to passengers
therein.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-4)
Section 6-1005 Vehicles to be in good mechanical condition; inspection of
vehicles.
   (a)   All taxicabs operated within the town shall be kept in good mechanical
condition at all times and the owner or operator shall have such vehicles
inspected from time to time and at regular intervals by an experienced and
competent automobile mechanic, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any such vehicles for the transportation of passengers for hire, when same is
not in good mechanical condition.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner and/or driver of any taxicab to have
the same inspected immediately at any time when ordered so to do by the chief
of police or other police officer of the town, and that it shall be unlawful to
operate such a vehicle, when so ordered, until it has been inspected, and all
necessary repairs made, which inspection shall be made at the expense of the
owner or operator.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-5)
Section 6-1006 Identifying sign required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab. or to permit the
operation of a taxicab owned by him, within the corporate limits of the town
unless the sign “TAXI” is placed on each side of the taxicab in a minimum of
four inch letters.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-6)
Section 6-1007 Driven to wear uniforms.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab, or to permit the
operation of a taxicab owned by him, within the corporate limits of the town
unless the driver of the taxicab wears a uniform consisting of cap, shirt and
trousers which distinguishes such person as a taxicab driver.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-7)
Section 6-1008 Certificate of convenience and necessity required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over the
streets of the town, without first having applied for and secured from the
Board a certificate of convenience and necessity.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-13)
Section 6-1009 Application, generally.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
town shall file, on form supplied by the clerk, an application for a
certificate of convenience and necessity.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-14)
Section 6-1010 Action of Board on application.
   (a)   General powers of Board. The Board shall have the power and it shall
be its duty to order certain certificates applied for under this article issued
or to refuse to issue certain certificates or to issue certificates for a
partial exercise of the rights granted only by such certificate, under such
terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and necessity
may require.
   (b)   Factors to be considered in determing convenience and necessity. In
determing whether the public convenience and necessity require the franchising
of taxicabs for which certificates are sought, the Board shall, among other
things, take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)    Whether or not the public convenience and necessity requires such
proposed or additional taxicab service within the Town.
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory.
      (3)    The number and condition of equipment.
      (4)    The schedule of proposed rates to be charged.
      (5)    The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of such taxicabs.
      (6)    The experience of applicant in the taxicab business.
      (7)    Such other relative facts as may be necessary and advisable.
   (c)   Investigation prerequisite to decision. Before making any decision
with respect to the issuance of a certificate of convenience and necessity, the
Board, or a designate thereof, shall make a full and complete investigation of
all facts, and may, if the Board so desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the
services of the chief of police or any other officer or employee of the Town.
   (d)   Hearing and notice thereof. Each application for a certificate of
convenience and necessity shall be scheduled for a hearing not later than 20
days after the same is filed, and the applicant shall be notified by the Town
clerk, by mail directed to the business address set forth in the application,
of the date and time of such hearing, such notification to be sent at least 10
days before the date set for the hearing. The Town clerk shall also, within the
same time, notify all persons who at that time hold certificates of convenience
and necessity for the operation of taxicabs within the Town of the date and
time of such hearing, and the name of the applicant. In addition, the clerk
shall cause to be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation, at least 10 days before such hearing, a notice setting forth the
name of the applicant and the date and time of the hearing. The cost of such
publication shall be paid by the applicant.
   (e)   Burden of proof. The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to
establish the existence of public convenience and necessity for the operation
of the taxicab or taxicabs specified in his application, and all other facts
required for the granting of a certificate.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-15)
Section 6-1011 Substitution of vehicles.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued under this article may, by
appropriate endorsement thereon by the Town clerk, substitute another vehicle
or other vehicles for the vehicle or vehicles for which the certificate was
granted. In such instance, the liability insurance or bonds, as required by
section
6-1002, shall also be transferred to such substitute vehicle or vehicles.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-16)
Section 6-1012 Transfer.
   A certificate issued under this article shall not be transferable without
the consent of the Board. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed
in the same manner as an application for a certificate of convenience and
necessity. The proceedings upon such application for a transfer shall be the
same as those described for the issuance of a certificate, except that the
question of public convenience and necessity need not be proved.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-17)
Section 6-1013 Expiration upon failure to begin operations.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant under this article and the
applicant fails in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin
operations within 60 days after the date of the certificate, the certificate
shall become null and void.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-18)
Section 6-1014 Duration; renewal.
   A certificate granted under this article shall constitute a franchise from
the Town for the operation of taxicabs within the Town, subject to the
provisions of this article, for one year, unless a shorter period of time is
specified in the certificate. Applications for renewal shall be filed annually
and hearings conducted as provided in this article.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-19)
Section 6-1015 Revocation; grounds.
   The Board may at any time after a public hearing revoke any certificate
issued by authority of this article for any one, or more, of the following
causes:
   (1)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate in such
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently.
   (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair.
   (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by section
6-1002.
   (4)   Failure to pay to the Town any taxes or license fees imposed upon such
taxicabs.
   (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety ordinances or Federal or State laws relating to alcoholic beverages,
prostitution, or gambling.
   (6)   Failure to report accidents.
   (7)   Wilful failure to comply with any provision of this article or other
ordinances or State laws relating to the operation of taxicabs.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-20)
Section 6-1016 Hearing.
   No certificate issued under this article shall -be revoked until the owner
has had at least five days notice by personal service or registered mail of the
charges against him, and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the
hearing, it is found that the owner is guilty of one or more of the offenses
listed in section
6-1015, the Board shall have the power to revoke the certificate, or to
condition a revocation upon compliance of its order within any time fixed by
it.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-21)
Section 6-1017 Drivers permit required.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the corporate limits of the Town unless he has first applied for
and secured, from the Town Board, a permit to operate a taxicab.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-30)
Section 6-1018 Application generally.
   Application for a permit required by this article shall be made upon blanks
furnished by the Town for such purpose and shall, among other things, state the
name, address, physical condition, description, former employers, court record
and State chauffeur's license number of the applicant. Such application shall
be signed and sworn to by the applicant.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-31)
Section 6-1019 Applicant's fingerprints and photograph required.
   An applicant for a permit under this article shall appear at the office of
the police department for the purpose of having his fingerprints taken, and
shall have his photograph made and attached to the application, both of which
shall constitute a part of his application.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-32)
Section 6-1020 Investigation of facts stated in application.
   The chief of police is hereby charged with the duty of investigating the
facts stated in an application for a permit under this article, and he shall
report his findings and recommendations to the manager, who shall report the
same to the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-32)
Section 6-1021 Issuance; circumstances.
   If the Board finds that the applicant for a permit under this article has
hot been convicted of a felony, a violation of any Federal or State statute
relating to the use, possession or ale of intoxicating liquors, any Federal or
State statute relating to the use, possession or sale of narcotic drugs, or any
Federal or State statute relating to gambling, and that the applicant is a
citizen of the United States and is not an habitual user of intoxicating
liquors or narcotic drugs, and has not been an habitual violator of traffic
laws or ordinances, the Board may issue a permit to the applicant.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-34)
Section 6-1022 Display.
   The driver of every taxicab shall, at all times while operating such
vehicle, prominently post and display in such taxicab, so as to be visible to
the passengers therein, his permit to drive such taxicab.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-35)
Section 6-1023 Expiration and renewal.
   All permits issued under this article shall automatically expire and be null
and void on October first next following the date of issuance. Such permits may
be renewed for periods of 12 months by the Board upon application and
compliance with the same terms and conditions as are prescribed for original
applications and the issuance of original permits.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-36)
Section 6-1024 Revocation.
   At any time after the issuance of a permit under this article, the Board may
revoke such permit, If the person holding the same is convicted of a felony, a
violation of any Federal or State statute relating to the use, possession or
sale of intoxicating liquors, any Federal or State statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of narcotic drugs, any Federal or State statute relating to
prostitution, or any Federal or State statute relating to gambling, or if such
person becomes a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs or
repeated violator of traffic laws or ordinances.
(Code 1963, Sec. 16-37)
State Law Reference: Regulation of taxis, GS. 160A-304.
Section 6-1025 through 6-1030 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Sunday Regulation
Section 6-1031 through 6-1040 reserved.
Section 6-1041 Definition.
   For the purposes of this article, the term "billiard hall" shall embrace any
room where two (2) or more billiard or pool tables are kept, or any place where
any person or persons can play the game of billiards or pool by the payment of
a fee, charge, or by the purchase, possession, or presentation of a ticket or
token, but specifically not including youth recreation centers where the game
of billiards is incidental to other games and forms of amusement.
(Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
State Law Reference: Authority of Town to regulate , G.S. 160A-181.
Section 6-1042 Operating regulation.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator, owner, manager, licensee or any
employee of a billiard hall to:
   (1)   Suffer or permit or engage in betting or wagering on the game of
billiards or the game of pool.
   (2)   Suffer, permit, or engage in the act of throwing dice, card playing,
raffle, other games of chance, or any form of gambling on the premises of the
billiard hall.
   (3)   Operate, suffer, or permit the operation of any slot machine, punch
board, pigeon board, ball ticket or other mechanical gambling device on the
premises of the billiard hall.
   (4)   Suffer or permit the premises to become unclean or unsanitary, or
block any passageway, or fail to have the premises well lighted and windows
transparent from exterior, or prevent the inspection of the premises by a duly
qualified Town official.
   (5)   Keep open or otherwise operate such billiard hall between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Hours may be extended for tournament use only and
requires advanced notification and approval by the Town Manager or designee.
   (6)   Permit the use or sale of marijuana or drugs on the premises of the
billiard hall.
(Amended by Ord. of 4/14/81; Amended by Ord. of 6/25/19; Amended by Ord. of 8/
8/19)
State Law Reference: Permitting minors to enter billiard halls, G. S. Sec. 14-
317.
Section 6-1043 Exemptions from article.
   This article shall not apply to fraternal organizations having a national
charter, American Legion Posts, or posts or, other local organizations of other
veterans' organizations chartered by Congress or organized and operating on a
State-wide or nation-wide basis, Young Men's Christian Associations and Young
Women's Christian Associations, or nonstock, nonprofit charitable recreational
corporations, foundations or centers to which the City or County contributes
any portion of the operating expense.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-3) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1044 License required.
   No billiard hall shall be operated or conducted within the Town unless the
same is first duly licensed and the license is in force and not suspended
pursuant to the terms of this article.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-11) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1045 Application generally; payment of Boom tax.
   It shall be the duty of every person desiring to operate, promote or
maintain a billiard hall to apply to the Board for a license therefor, filing a
written application on a notarized form provided by the Town. Attached to the
form shall be a statement of the character and reliability of the applicant
signed by five residents and freeholders of the Town. Also attached to the
application shall be a cash payment or certified check for the entire amount of
the license tax required of the applicant by the schedule referred to in
section
2-4015 of this Code for the year in which such application is made. In all
cases the license tax for the entire year shall be paid, regardless of the date
for the opening or beginning of business. In the event that the application for
the license is refused, the clerk shall immediately refund the amount of
license tax so tendered.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-12) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1046 Bond required of applicant.
   (a)   At the time of filing application for a license to operate a billiard
hall in compliance with the provisions of this article, each applicant shall
file with the clerk a cash bond in the sum of $500 made payable to the Town.
Upon violation of this chapter, the bond is immediately forfeited to the
benefit of the Town.
   (b)   Each bond filed under this section shall be conditioned as follows:
      (1)    That there is no false statement in the license application.
      (2)    That if the license is issued, the applicant will not, during the
term of the license, permit such hall or any room, booth, garden or any place
appertaining thereto or connected therewith, to become disorderly.
      (3)    That the applicant will not, either by any act or conduct of his
own or by any act or conduct of his agents or employees, violate any provisions
of this article or any of the laws of the State or federal government or of the
Town.
   (c)   In the event the application for a license is refused, the bond filed
under this section shall be immediately returned to the person filing it.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-13) (Amended by Ord. of 4/14/81; Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1047 Investigation prerequisite to issuance.
   (a)   The Board shall, before granting any license under this article cause
an investigation to be made under the direction of the manager regarding the
compliance of the proposed billiard hall and the operator with all laws
applicable to the operation of billiard halls, whether State or local.
   (b)   Upon the completion of the investigation required above, the manager
shall report the results thereof to the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-14) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1048 Issuance generally.
   Upon a majority vote of the Board, and subject to the provisions of this
article, a billiard hall license shall be issued, subject to the following
provisions:
   (1)   That more than 14 days have elapsed from the date the Board first
received the application.
   (2)   That the license fee has been paid for the entire fiscal year and no
reduction given for any reason whatsoever.
   (3)   That all the laws applicable have been complied with by the applicant.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-15) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1049 Not to issue to certain persons.
   The Board shall not issue a license for a billiard hall to any of the
following persons:
   (1)   Any person, or partnership or corporation which has a member, who has
been convicted of a second offense against the provisions of this article.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-17) (Amended by Ord. of 6/25/19; Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1050 Contents; term.
   Every license issued under this article shall specify the name of the
licensee, the specific place where the business is to be carried on, the number
of tables authorized to be operated thereunder, and the day upon which the
license shall begin and expire, and the license shall be effective only from
the date of issuance to the time of expiration so specified in the license.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-17) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1051 Display of license.
   Each license issued under this article shall be enclosed by the licensee in
a suitable frame having a clear glass face and a substantial wood or metal back
so that the whole of such license may be seen therein and shall be posted up
and at all times displayed in a conspicuous place in the room or place where
the license business is conducted so that all persons visiting such room or
place may readily see the same. It shall be unlawful for any person to post
such license or permit the same to be posted upon any premises other than those
for which the license was issued.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-18) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1052 Not transferable.
   A license issued under this article shall not be transferable, either from
person to person or from place to place.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-19) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1053 Revocation.
   The Board may at any time, for cause and after a reasonable hearing, revoke
a license issued under this article and such revocation shall be final. After
revocation of a license, the license shall not be reinstated for a period of
one year. A second conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this
article shall, when such judgment becomes final, automatically act as a
revocation of the license and forfeiture of the bond of the licensee.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-20) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1054 Defacing or destroying license.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or destroy any license issued and
displayed as required by this article.
(Code 1963, Sec. 421) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1055 Duplicate licenses.
   In the event a license issued under this article is lost or destroyed, the
Board may cause a duplicate to be issued for a fee of five dollars.
(Code 1963, Sec. 4-22) (Amended by Ord. of 8/8/19)
Section 6-1056 throng 6-1060 reserved.
ARTICLE D
Peddling and Soliciting
Section 6-1061 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed:
   (1)   Peddler. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells
or offers for sale such goods, or who, without traveling from place to place,
sells or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided, that
any person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of
evading the provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler.
   (2)   Solicitor. Any person who travels from place to place taking or
offering to take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for
personal services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are
displayed or money is collected in advance, and any person who uses or occupies
any building or premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to take
orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services to be
performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance.
   (3)   Transient vendor. Any person who engages in a temporary business of
selling and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any
building or premises; provided, that no person shall be relieved from complying
with the provisions of this section merely by conducting a transient business
in association with any permanently established merchant.
Section 6-1062 Registration.
   Each and every person doing business in the Town as a peddler, solicitor or
transient vendor shall report first to the police department and then shall
file with the Town clerk, on a form to be provided for the purpose, a statement
setting forth the following information:
   (1)   Name and address of individual fling statement;
   (2)   Name and address of principal or employer if individual is an agent or
employee:
   (3)   Credentials showing relationship of agent or employee;
   (4)   Description of individual filing statement, including height, weight,
sex, age, color and distinguishing characteristics, if any;
   (5)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale, or the type of services to
be rendered;
   (6)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in the
Town;
   (7)   Description of automobile or other vehicle to be used in the business,
including the make, model, body style, color and license number; and
   (8)   Evidence of compliance with all applicable State licensing and
regulatory requirements.
Section 6-1063 Badge.
   The Town clerk shall file with the police department and shall issue to each
person filing the statement required by section
6-1062 hereof, a badge substantially as follows:
19         Town of          No.
SOLICITOR'S BADGE
(Name) has registered with the Town clerk as required by ordinance.
(Date)
   Town Clerk
During the time such person is engaged in soliciting, said badge shall be worn
on the front of his outer garment in such manner as to be conspicuous. The
giving of an I.D. card or badge by the Town Police Department is for the
purposes of identification, and shall not signify endorsement of any individual
or product.
Section 6-1064 Harassment prohibited.
   All persons registered under this article shall refrain from harassing,
annoying and overly aggressive conduct toward members of the public generally.
Violation of this provision shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall result in
forfeiture of solicitation privileges within the corporate limits.
State Law Refuse: For State law a to the authority of the Town to regulate
peddling see G.S. 160A-178.
Section 6-1065 through 6-1070 reserved.
ARTICLE E
Beer and Wine Sales
Section 6-1071 Sunday sale hours.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. 160A-205.3, any licensed
establishment located in the Town is permitted to sell alcoholic beverages
beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday pursuant to the licensed premises’ permit
issued under G.S. 18B-1001. (Ord. of 10/26/17)
Section 6-1072 through 6-1080 reserved.
ARTICLE F
Places of Amusement
Section 6-1081 Coin-operated games or devices.
   Any business other than a commercial recreation center as defined in Section
9-4005, or a game room as defined in Section
6-1082 of this code, may operate no more than three coin-operated amusement
games or devices.
(Ord. of 2/28/78)
Section 6-1082 Definition.
   (a)   A game room for the purpose of this article shall be any place of
business that principally operates mechanical, electrical, or electronic games
or pay devices or tables for which charge is made either directly or
indirectly, excepting billiard halls or poolrooms which are provided for in
Part 6. Chapter 1, Article C, of the Town of Canton Code of Ordinances.
   (b)   Examples of game rooms, by way of illustration and not limitation. are
bowling alleys, video centers. amusement centers, and the like.
(Ord. of 9/28/82, Sec. 1)
Section 6-1083 Licenses required.
   (a)   Every operator of a game room shall be required to pay a privilege
license tax in accordance with the privilege license ordinance of the Town of
Canton.
   (b)   In addition, every operator of a game room shall apply for and obtain
a license from the Mayor and Board of Aldermen to operate a game room.
Application for such a license shall be made upon forms provided by the Town
Clerk.
   (c)   The following fees shall be paid to and collected by the Town Clerk
when the application is submitted to cover the cost of administration of this
article:
   (1)   An application fee of $15.00.
   (2)   $10.00 for each game or pay device or table and $10.00 for each game
or pay device or table added thereafter.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful to operate a game room within the Town of Canton
without a license as required by subsection (b).
(Ord. of 9128/82. Sec. 2)
Section 6-1084 Restrictions.
   The Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall not issue a license to any applicant
who:
   (1)   Has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors,
marijuana, or narcotic drugs; or
   (2)   Is not a resident of North Carolina; or
   (3)   Is of immoral character; or
   (4)   Is an habitual user of intoxicating liquor, marijuana, or narcotic
drugs.
(Ord. of 9/28/82, Sec. 3)
Section 6-1085 Prohibited conduct.
   Licensees under this article shall not, and neither shall their employees:
   (1)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time;
nor the sale or use of any racing, football, or other parlay cards or gambling
boards or devices;
   (2)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly; or permit
any profane, obscene, or indecent language thereon;
   (3)   Suffer or permit any intoxicating liquors, marijuana, or narcotic
drugs to be sold or kept or consumed on the licensed premises;
   (4)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been convicted
or unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors, marijuana, or narcotic drugs.
(Ord. of 9/28/82, Sec. 4)
Section 6-1086 Rules for operation of game rooms.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of game rooms within
the Town of Canton.
   (1)   All game rooms shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. until 9:00 a.m. Monday
through Saturdays.
   (2)   No play on any game shall be allowed during the times when game rooms
are required by this article to remain closed.
   (3)   Game rooms may be open on Sunday only between the hours of 1:00 p.m.
and 6:00 p.m.
   (4)   All game rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building, and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the building
facing any street, so that a clear view inside may be had from the street.
   (5)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where games are played and the rear
wall of such room so that a clear view of the interior may be had from the
street.
   (6)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
   (7)   There must be an adult (18 years of age or older) managing the
business on the premises during hours of operation at all times.
(Ord. of 9/28/82. Sec. 5)
Section 6-1087 Revocation of license.
   After giving the operator of a Same room adequate notice and an opportunity
to be heard, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen may revoke the license of any game
room operator who:
   (1)   Violates the provisions of Section
6-1085 or
6-1086, or
   (2)   Is convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquor, marijuana, or
narcotic drugs.
(Ord. of 9/28/82, Sec. 6)
Section 6-1088 Other businesses.
   An operator of another business who incidentally and as a minor part of the
business operates mechanical, electrical, or electronic games or pay ,devices
or tables for which charge is made directly or indirectly, excepting billiard
halls or poolrooms, shall be subject to and required to abide by Section
6-1083, Section
6-1084, Section
6-1085 except legal beer and wine may be kept and sold, and Section
6-1087 of this article.
(Ord. of 9/28/82, Sec. 7)
Section 6-1089 Location.
   Game rooms as defined in this article may be located only in the central
business district. Other businesses as defined in Section
6-1088 above shall only be permitted three (3) games br pay devices or tables
and are to be located in a commercial zone.
(Ord. of 9/28/82. Sec. 8)
Section 6-1090 reserved.
ARTICLE G
Massage and Bodywork Therapy Regulations
Section 6-1091 Purpose and objectives.
   The therapeutic application of massage is one of the oldest healing arts
known to humankind, a practice which can provide many benefits to an
individual’s state of health and well-being. In the interest of public health,
safety, welfare and morals, and to protect the public from unqualified
practitioners and unethical businesses, the following privilege license
provisions and regulations are hereby adopted.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1092 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Business or profession of massage means the massage of any person for a fee
or for other consideration.
   Chief of Police means Police Chief for the Town of Canton or his/her
designee.
   Massage means any form of manipulation of body muscles or tissue by rubbing,
stroking, kneading, or tapping, by hand or mechanical device.
   Massage therapist means any person who is engaged in the business or
profession of massage therapy, and who receives compensation for his or her
services.
   Massage therapy establishment means any establishment or business wherein
massage is practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs,
physical culture studios, massage studios, massage parlors, or similar
establishments by whatever name designated. A massage school is a massage
therapy establishment only if some portion of the premises is used for the
business or profession of massage.
   Massage therapy school means any educational facility for massage which
meets minimum standards for training and curriculum as determined by the North
Carolina Division of Proprietary School Services, and is licensed by the North
Carolina State Board of Community Colleges.
   Private parts means the penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
   Town Clerk means the Town Clerk for the Town of Canton or his/her designee.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1093 Exemptions.
   The practice of massage therapy shall not include and is distinct from the
practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy or
podiatry. Requirements of this article shall have no application to and effect
upon:
   (a)   Medical doctors, chiropractors, osteopaths, physical therapists or
podiatrists duly licensed to practice in this State, and registered or licensed
practical nurses governed by the North Carolina Nursing Practices Act.
   (b)   Employees of nursing homes and hospitals which are duly licensed by
the State of North Carolina.
   (c)   Athletic directors or trainers who are affiliated with an accredited
educational institution or professional sports team, and whose work is limited
to athletic team members.
   (d)   Licensed cosmetologists, barbers or beauty culturists who do not
practice, or hold themselves out to practice massage therapy other than what is
customarily provided in such establishments, solely for the purpose of
beautification.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1094 Licensing of massage therapists and massage therapy
establishments.
   (a)   No person, partnership, corporation or association shall operate as a
massage therapist or a massage therapy establishment as herein defined without
holding a valid Town of Canton privilege license as provided herein.
   (b)   Every application for the privilege license to operate as a massage
therapist shall be upon a form supplied by the Town Clerk and filed with the
Town Clerk. The application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence address of the applicant; and
      (2)   A complete statement of the previous businesses or occupations of
the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the
application; and
      (3)   The date and place of applicant’s birth and the residence and
business addresses of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding
the date of application; and
      (4)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felonies, or for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
concerning or related to the business or profession of massage therapy, or for
any offense involving sexual misconduct, whether in this jurisdiction or any
other, including G.S. § 14-177 through G.S. § 14-202.1 Article 26 (offenses
against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§ 14-203 through 14-208. Article
27 (Prostitution), or any federal statute relating to prostitution; and
      (5)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of massage therapy.
      (6)   Applicant must satisfy at least one of the following educational
requirements:
         a.   Graduation from a massage therapy school which is licensed by the
North Carolina State Board of Community Colleges with a minimum curriculum of
500 hours of classroom instruction; or
         b.   Graduation from a school or institute of massage therapy which
offers a minimum curriculum of 500 hours of classroom instruction which is
license by another state; provided however, it shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to provide a letter to the Town Clerk from that State’s Licensing
Board certifying that the school or institute of massage therapy of which the
applicant graduated is licensed by that State’s licensing authority; or
         c.   Graduation from a school or institute of massage therapy which
has been certified as program approved by the American Massage Therapy
Association Commission on Massage Training Accreditation. Approval or the
National Testing Service; or
         d.   A certificate of certification from the National Certification
Examination for Therapeutic Massage and Body Work; or
         e.   Possesses a current valid license issued by the North Carolina
Board of Massage and Bodywork Therapy.
   (c)   Investigation.
      (1)   Upon payment of the application fee as set forth in this article
and upon submission of all of the information required by the application under
this article, the Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the
Police Chief for an investigative report. The Chief of Police shall, within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, report the results of the examinations
to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports required
by this section, shall be submitted to the Town Clerk who shall grant a license
to operate as a massage therapist if:
         a.   The application contains no misstatement of fact; and
         b.   The applicant, is 21 years of age or older and has not been
convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct or offenses against public
morality and decency; and
         c.   The proposed establishment conforms to all requirements of
applicable zoning, building and fire prevention codes; and
         d.   The applicant has not, during the three-year period preceding the
application, suffered a revocation of any license granted by any governmental
unit for the purpose of engaging in the business or profession of massage
therapy, or operating a massage therapy establishment, as defined by such
governmental unit.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1095 Hours of operation.
   (a)   No massage therapist shall massage or treat any person or engage in
the business or profession of massage, before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.
   (b)   No person licensed under this article shall admit customers or
prospective customers, or remain open for business, or allow, or permit or
condone any massage or treatment of any person upon the premises before 8:00
a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1096 Massage of private parts for hire prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or to offer to massage the
private parts of another for hire.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1097 Names of employees filed with Chief of Police.
   It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license under this article to
file with The Chief of Police the names of all employees, their date of birth
and Social Security number, their home addresses, home telephone numbers and
places of employment. Changes in the list of employees with the names of new
employees must be filed with the Chief of Police within ten days from the date
of any such change.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1098 Patronage of massage businesses by minors; employment of minors;
massage of persons under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
   (a)   No massage therapist shall massage or treat any person under the age
of 21 years or permit or condone such treatment, except when the parent or
guardian of the person under 21 accompanies the person under the age of 21
during the massage treatment or upon written order of a licensed physician,
osteopath, chiropractor, podiatrist or registered physical therapist, such
order being dated and in the possession of the person giving the massage or
treatment.
   (b)   No person licensed pursuant to this article shall employ any person
under the age of 21 years in the operation of the massage business.
   (c)   No massage therapist shall massage or treat any person under the
influence of intoxicating drugs or alcohol.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1099 Display of certificate of licensure.
   Every massage therapist shall at all times display in his or her work area
the privilege license required by this article for the practice of massage
therapy; however, a massage therapist practicing at a site other than his or
her regular work area may comply with this requirement by having in his or her
possession a picture identification containing the privilege license
information.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1100 Revocation or suspension.
   (a)   The license of a massage therapist, issued pursuant to this article
may be revoked or suspended by the Chief of Police as follows:
      (1)   The following shall subject the licensee to revocation:
         a.   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits
any individual to perform massage therapy on the premises of the licensee’s
massage therapy establishment or business when the individual does not hold a
current valid license to practice massage therapy; or
         b.   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct, or,
         c.   The licensee is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading or
deceptive advertising, including the use of the term “massage therapy” or
“massage” to describe, promote or advertise any type of business activity or
service offered which is expressly not a massage as defined herein, or has
otherwise fraudulently engaged in the business or profession of massage
therapy; or
         d.   The licensee violates §
6-1096.
         e.   The licensee violates the North Carolina Massage and Bodywork
Therapy Practice Act.
      (2)   The following shall subject the licensee to suspension:
         a.   With the exception of §
6-1096 the licensee or any employee of the licensee violates any provision of
this article;
         b.   Any employee of the licensee is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct;
         c.   The licensee violates any zoning, building or fire prevention
ordinance; or
         d.   The licensee is convicted of a violation of the North Carolina
Control Substances Laws.
   (b)   The Chief of Police may, upon notice and an opportunity to be heard,
revoke or suspend a license issued pursuant to this article. Notice of a
hearing shall be given in writing and served at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing. The notice shall state the grounds of the complaint
against the license holder and shall designate the time and place where the
hearing will be held.
   (c)   The notice of the hearing may be served by hand delivery, by first
class mail or by leaving such notice at the place of business or residence of
the license holder in the custody of a person of suitable age and discretion.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1101 Appeals.
   (a)   The Town Board of Aldermen shall hear and determine appeals from
determinations made by the Chief of Police or the Town Clerk.
   (b)   Upon denial, revocation, suspension or interpretation made by the
Chief of Police or the Town Clerk, the applicant may appeal the determination
by filing a written appeal within ten days of the decision.
   Upon timely receipt of an appeal, the Town Clerk shall schedule a hearing
within 30 days of the filing of the appeal.
   (c)   The Board shall render a final decision within 30 days of the hearing.
An appeal from the Board may be taken to the Haywood County Superior Court for
a writ of certiorari within ten days of receipt of the Board’s decision.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1102 Annual privilege license.
   The licenses required under this article are annual privilege licenses. Such
licenses shall be due and payable in the same manner as prescribed for other
privilege licenses issued by the town pursuant to the license and privilege tax
ordinance of the town.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1103 Transference of license prohibited.
   Once issued, no privilege license to operate as a massage therapist may be
transferred from one person, corporation, name to another.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1104 Penalties.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. of 7/17/07)
Section 6-1105 through 6-1110 reserved.
ARTICLE H
Tattooing
Section 6-1111 Tattooing may be allowed as a conditional use in the Central
Business (C-1) and General Business (C-2) Zones.
   (a)   Prior to being issued a business license, the owner/operator must
agree in writing to comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Sale or consumption of alcohol is banned on the premise except for
limited special occasion permits issued by the NC Alcohol Beverage Control
Commission.
      (2)   Time of operations be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (3)   Must conform to any and all other uses and requirements within the
Zone where the business is located.
      (4)   No sale of products, devices, or accessories commonly associated
with smoking products (hookah pipes, glass smoking bowls, clips, etc.)
      (5)   No piercing, body modification, scarification of any kind.
   (b)   Failure to comply with or continue with these requirements shall be
grounds to revoke the permit with notification to local and state authorities.
(Ord. of 1/10/84; As Amended by Ord. of 11/27/12)
Section 6-1112 through 6-1115 reserved.
ARTICLE I
Internet Access/Sweepstakes Providers
Section 6-1116   Application.
   The application for an internet access provider shall include a signed and
witnessed statement/ agreement by the licensee to, upon request by the town,
provide tax records, financial statements, etc. to demonstrate that the income
from game/ machine revenues does not exceed 15% of the licensee’s gross income
for the principal business.
Section 6-1117   Regulations.
   (a)   Regulations for internet access/sweepstakes providers, as defined in
Section
9-4004, do not apply to any non-internet based game without a chance to enter
or to win a sweepstakes prize or entry. Such games are regulated in Sections
6-1081 through
6-1089 and
9-4004 (10) in the Town of Canton Code of Ordinances.
   (b)   This article does not apply to any game or process prohibited by G.S.
§§ 14-304 through 14-309.
(Ord. of 1/12/10)
Section 6-1118   Minors.
   Providers shall prohibit minors from playing or viewing the screens of
machines or terminals regulated by this article.
(Ord. of 1/12/10)
Section 6-1119   Violation.
   Where there is a violation of any provision of this article, a Town Police
Officer, at the request of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or Code Enforcement
Officer, may issue a citation subjecting the violator to civil and criminal
penalties as set forth below.
   (a)   Any violation of this article shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $50. Each day's continuing violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense which shall subject the offender to an additional
civil penalty in the amount of $50 per day of the continuing violation.
   (b)   In addition to or in lieu of remedies authorized in subsection (a),
violations of this article may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor with a fine of
$50 plus court costs in accordance with G.S. 160A-175.
(Ord. of 1/12/10)
CHAPTER 2
Street and Sidewalk Use and Regulation
ARTICLE A Obstructions
Section
6-2001   Obstructions generally.
Section
6-2002   Obstruction by persons congregating or standing.
Section
6-2003   Use of streets and sidewalks for selling.
Section
6-2004   Goods displayed and sold on sidewalks.
Section
6-2005   Trees and plants along streets and sidewalks.
Section
6-2006   Depositing or burning rubbish on streets and sidewalks.
Section
6-2007   Maintenance of sidewalks by occupants.
Section
6-2008   Placing trash, scrapped automobiles on any street or highway.
Section
6-2009   through 6-2010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Use and Cleanliness
Section
6-2011   Littering prohibited.
Section
6-2012   Same; vehicles.
Section
6-2013   Same; violation.
Section
6-2014   Maintenance of public areas.
Section
6-2015   Same; receptacles.
Section
6-2016   Same; violation.
Section
6-2017   Snow and ice removal.
Section
6-2018   Bicycles on sidewalks prohibited.
Section
6-2019   Dirt and debris on streets and sidewalks.
Section
6-2020   Newspaper stands prohibited.
ARTICLE C Parades and Demonstrations
Section
6-2021   Definitions.
Section
6-2022   Permit required.
Section
6-2023   Standards.
Section
6-2024   Requirements and issuance of permits.
Section
6-2025   Certain activities prohibited.
Section
6-2026   Revocation of permit.
Section
6-2027   Interference prohibited.
Section
6-2028   Additional regulations applicable to picketing.
Section
6-2029   Exceptions.
ARTICLE D Yard Sales, Garage Sales, and the Like
Section
6-2040   Definitions.
Section
6-2041   Regulations.
Section
6-2042   Coverage.
Section
6-2043   Penalties.
ARTICLE A
Obstructions
Section 6-2001 Obstructions generally.
   No brick, stone, wood, refuse, or other substance shall be placed or
permitted to remain on any street, sidewalk, or alley in the town by any
person, in such a manner as to obstruct the free passage of persons and
vehicles.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-1)
Section 6-2002 Obstruction by persons congregating or standing.
   (a)   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collecting and standing
so as to obstruct any sidewalk or street and all persons so collecting and
standing shall disperse and move upon order or command of any town police
officer.
   (b)   This section does not apply to:
   (1)   Attendees or participants of a “special event,” which has been
approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/women of the town through the
special event permitting process;
   (2)   Parades and demonstrations, including picketing as defined in Article
C, Sections
6-2021 through
6-2028; or
   (3)   Other activity made lawful by Federal, State, or local law.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-2) (Amended by Ord. of 7/10/14)
Section 6-2003 Use of streets and sidewalks for selling.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or solicit the sale of any
article whatsoever, whether tangible or intangible, on the streets and
sidewalks of the town in any manner unless addressed in Section
6-2004.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-3) (As Amended by Ord. of 6/23/09)
Section 6-2004 Goods displayed and sold on sidewalks.
   (a)   Items such as planters, benches, and similar functional items are
exempt. Such items may not obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic or parking.
   (b)   Signs are not permitted under this section and shall be regulated by
sign requirements for the district.
   (c)   Displays within one are not to exceed 20 square feet may be allowed on
the sidewalk or attached directly to the face of a building provided that:
      1.   Displays are directly in front of the business.
      2.   Items protruding or hanging above the sidewalk are prohibited.
      3.   All displays must leave a minimum of forty inches (40") clearance
behind trash receptacles, planters, lamp posts, sign posts and similar items
and structures.
      4.   The applicant shows proof of liability insurance.
      5.   Written permission is given by the Chief of Police stating that the
applicant has submitted a plan in accordance with this section and there will
be no obstruction of vehicular or pedestrian traffic as presented in the plan
and the authorization is presented to the Board by the Manager and approved by
the Board.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/23/09)
Section 6-2005 Trees and plants along streets and sidewalks.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or maintain any hedge,
shrubbery, tree or plant along any street, alley or sidewalk closer than 18
inches to such street, alley or sidewalk, or to permit the same to extend
closer than 12 inches to any street, alley or sidewalk or lower than eight feet
above the street, alley, or sidewalk. It shall further be unlawful for any
person to allow, on his property, any of the above mentioned vegetation to grow
in such a manner as to obscure clear vision for a distance of 15 feet from the
intersection of one street with another.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-5)
Section 6-2006 Depositing or burning rubbish on streets and sidewalks.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, sweep or otherwise deposit or
to burn or cause to be thrown or burned any trash, refuse, or rubbish of any
nature on the streets or sidewalks of the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-6)
Section 6-2007 Maintenance of sidewalks by occupants.
   Every occupant of a structure in front of which the sidewalk is paved with
stone, brick, asphalt, or cement shall be required to maintain such sidewalk in
a safe condition and make such repairs as are necessary from time to time.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-7)
   Cross Reference: Garbage, refuse, generally, Section
4-2007.
Section 6-2008 Placing trash, scrapped automobiles on any street or highway.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, organization, or private
corporation to place or leave or cause to be placed temporarily or permanently
any trash, refuse, garbage, scrapped automobile, scrapped truck, or part
thereof, on any street or highway in the Town. It shall further be unlawful for
any person, firm, organization or private corporation to place or leave, or
cause to be placed, any automobile, truck or vehicle on any street or highway
in the Town at one location for a period of 24 hours.
   (b)   In addition to other remedies, the Town, at the owner's expense, may
move or haul off from said street or highway any automobile, scrapped
automobile, truck, scrapped truck, or part thereof, or any of the above
mentioned items remaining at any one location on any street or highway in the
Town for more than 24 hours.
(Code 1963, Sec. 15-9)
Section 6-2009 through 6-2010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Use and Cleanliness
Section 6-2011 Littering prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or private
corporation to throw or deposit any trash, refuse, garbage, building material,
cans, bottles, broken glass, paper, or any type of litter, upon any street or
sidewalk in the Town of Canton, or upon the Canton Pigeon River Scenic Walking
Trail, or upon any private property, except with written permission of the
owner or occupant of such private property.
(Ord. of 7-27-99)
Section 6-2012 Same; vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the Town or upon private property.
Section 6-2013 Same; violation.
   Any person found guilty of violating sections
6-2011 and
6-2012 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$50.00, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
Section 6-2014 Maintenance of public areas.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial
establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas for the
use of the public, either for parking or as access area and incident to the
carrying on of the principal business of any such commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within 10 feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain such areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon such street or other public way.
Section 6-2015 Same; receptacles.
   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas within
the meaning of section
6-2014 hereof. Such receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to
prevent scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other material deposited
therein.
Section 6-2016 Same; violation.
   Any owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial
establishment or premises within the meaning of section
6-2025 hereof who fails to abide by the provisions of section
6-2014 and
6-2015 shall be subject to a penalty of fifty $50 in addition to the penal
provisions of State law for violations of municipal ordinances.
Section 6-2017 Snow and ice removal.
   Every occupant of a stone building in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement, shall remove snow, ice or other
obstruction from such sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as the
weather permits.
Section 6-2018 Bicycles on sidewalks prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on any sidewalk in the
business district of the Town.
Section 6-2019 Dirt and debris on streets and sidewalks.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any property within
the Town to cause, allow, or permit mud, dirt, trash, debris, or other
materials from their property to go on to any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public property in the Town.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any builder, contractor, truck operator, or
hauler to cause, allow, or permit mud, dirt, trash, debris, or other materials
to go on to any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public property in the Town.
   (c)   Should any owner, occupant, builder, contractor, truck operator, or
hauler fail to remove or otherwise dispose of the mud, dirt, trash, debris, or
other materials within 24 hours after notice by the Town, the individual or
individuals shall be deemed in violation of this section, and each day
thereafter shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. of l2/9/80)
Section 6-2020 Newspaper stands prohibited.
   (a)   Newspaper stands are permitted on the sidewalks of Main Street and
Park Street, provided the newspaper stands are kept in good working condition,
maintain a clean appearance, placed in areas that do not block the sidewalks,
or create a hazard for those walking on the sidewalks.
   (b)   The Town of Canton shall be indemnified by the newspaper owner for any
loss due to the location of the newspaper stands.
(Ord. of 6/9/92; Amended by Ord. of 1/25/94)
ARTICLE C
Parades and Demonstrations
Section 6-2021 Definitions.
   For the purpose of sections
6-2021 through
6-2029 the following terms shall have the definitions ascribed:
   (1)   "Block" is that portion of any street lying between its intersections
with other streets.
   (2)   "Parade" is any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or
operating any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of
any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other
public grounds or places.
   (3)   "Person" is any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
or other organization, whether formal or informal.
   (4)   "Picket line" is any two or more persons formed together for the
purpose of making known any position or promotion of such persons, or on behalf
of any organization or class of persons.
   (5)   "Group demonstration" is any assembly together or concert of action
between or among two (2) or more persons for the purpose of protesting any
matter or of making known any position or promotion of such persons, or of or
on behalf of any organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of
attracting attention of such assembly.
Section 6-2022 Permit required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley, or other public place within the Town unless a permit therefor has been
issued by the Town in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Section 6-2023 Standards.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit for the proposed parade, picket
line, or group demonstration unless he/she finds that:
   (1)   Such a parade, picket line, or group demonstration is planned to take
place at a time during the day or night, which is incongruent with the nature
of the assembly or the hours in which a grievance can be reasonably heard;
   (2)   Such parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Chief of Police or his/her designee;
   (3)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (4)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
of the parade and of contiguous areas so that adequate police protection cannot
be provided the remainder of the town;
   (5)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances so that adequate ambulance service to portions of the town
not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
   (6)   The concentration of person, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas; or
   (7)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to person or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (8)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good, or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit; or
   (9)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of fire-
fighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot be
provided to the town.
(Amended by Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 6-2024 Requirements and issuance of permits.
   The chief of police or his designee shall issue permits as required in the
preceding section, and in the issuance thereof he shall:
   (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than 24
h6urs in advance of such parade, picket line, or group demonstration which
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any such
picket line and the time, place, route, and duration of any such parade or
group demonstration.
   (2)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate.
   (3)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. Such person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group demonstration
and shall carry such permit with him at that time. Such permit shall not be
valid in the possession of any other person.
Section 6-2025 Certain activities prohibited.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (1)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks, or flashlights
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (2)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed;
   (3)   To throw candy, objects or personal property of any kind;
   (4)   Participants in a parade may deliver candy or other objects by hand.
(Amended by Ord. of 8/11/92)
Section 6-2026 Restriction of permit.
   The chief of police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line, or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (1)   The violation by any participant of section
6-2025 of this article;
   (2)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
Section 6-2027 Interference prohibited.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the chief of police.
Section 6-2028 Additional regulations applicable to picketing.
   Picket line and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (1)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic;
   (2)   Not more than 10 pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two (2) sidewalks within a single block at any
one time;
   (3)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two (2) feet in width and two (2) feet in length promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done; provided, the words used are not derogatory or
defamatory in nature.
   (4)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
Section 6-2029 Exceptions.
   Sections
6-2021 through
6-2028 shall not apply to:
   (1)   Funeral processions;
   (2)   Any governmental agent acting within the scope of its functions.
ARTICLE D
Yard Sales, Garage Sales, and the Like
Section 6-2040 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Yard Sale” or “garage sale” as used in this ordinance refers to a
display and sale from a residence or residential property of personal property
which has been owned or previously used. The term “yard sale” or “garage sale”
does not include the mere incidental sale of one or two items of personal
property when such sale is not part of a general sale of a number of items of
personal property.
   (b)   “Goods” is meant to include any goods, wares, merchandise or any other
property capable of being the object of or sale regulated.
(Ord. of 9/11/07)
Section 6-2041 Regulations.
   All such sales shall be subject to the following rules and regulations:
   (a)   Permits. Permits are not required to conduct a yard sale.
   (b)   Consignment sales prohibited. No one shall accept or take in for sale,
any goods from any commercial business or enterprise on a consignment basis for
sale in a “yard sale”.
   (c)   Signs. Off-site directional signs are permitted, but only during the
24 hours preceding the sale. Off-site signs must be removed by the end of
daylight on day following the sale. No freestanding signs may be placed in the
public right-of-way. Signs may not, in any way, obstruct the flow of traffic,
or the view of motorists either on the road or attempting to access the road.
Signs shall not be posted on any utility poles or devices.
   (d)   Hours. “Yard sales” or “garage sales” may be conducted during daylight
hours only, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   (e)   Unowned premises.
      (1)   No “yard sale” or “garage sale” shall be permitted on premises not
owned or controlled by the person(s) holding the sale.
      (2)   No “yard sale” shall be permitted on vacant lots within the Town
limits.
(Ord. of 9/11/07)
Section 6-2042 Coverage.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect persons selling
goods pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or persons
acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(Ord. of 9/11/07)
Section 6-2043 Penalties.
   (a)   Violation of any provision of this article shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be recovered by the town. Violators
shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within 72 hours.
   (b)   Each days continuing violation of this article shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
(Ord. of 9/11/07)
CHAPTER 8
Moving of Building
(Reserved)
PART 7
Motor Vehicles and Traffic
CHAPTER 1
General Traffic Regulations
ARTICLE A Words and Phrases Defined
Section
7-1001   Definitions of words and phrases.
Section
7-1002   through 7-1010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Traffic Administration
Section 7-1011 through 7-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE C Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
Section
7-1021   Application of chapter to person riding, propelling, etc., pushcarts,
tractors, trailers, carts, animals, etc.
Section
7-1022   Public employees to obey traffic regulations.
Section
7-1023   Authority of police and fire department officials.
Section
7-1024   Obedience to police and fire department officials.
Section
7-1025   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted.
Section
7-1026   Authorized emergency vehicles.
Section 7-1027 through 7-1030 reserved.
ARTICLE D Traffic-Control Devices
Section
7-1031   Obedience to signs, etc., generally.
Section
7-1032   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement.
Section
7-1033   Specifications of traffic-control devices.
Section
7-1034   Sign inventory system established.
Section
7-1035   Traffic-control signal legend.
Section
7-1036   Pedestrian control signals.
Section
7-1037   Flashing signals.
Section
7-1038   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings.
Section
7-1039   Interference with official traffic-control devices, signs or signals.
Section
7-1040   Authority to establish play streets.
Section
7-1041   Traffic lanes.
Section
7-1042   Zone of quiet.
Section
7-1043   School zones.
Section
7-1044   Yield signs.
Section 7-1045 through 7-1050 reserved.
ARTICLE E Speed Regulations
Section
7-1051   General.
Section
7-1052   Exceptions.
Section 7-1053 through 7-1060 reserved.
ARTICLE F Turning Movements
Section
7-1061   Turning markers.
Section
7-1062   Authority to place restricted turn signs.
Section
7-1063   Obedience to no-turn signs.
Section
7-1064   Limitations on turning around.
Section 7-1065 through 7-1070 reserved.
ARTICLE G One-way Streets and Alleys
Section
7-1071   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys.
Section
7-1072   One-way streets and alleys.
Section 7-1073 through 7-1080 reserved.
ARTICLE H Special Stops Required
Section
7-1081   Through streets designated.
Section
7-1082   Authority to erect stop signs.
Section
7-1083   Intersections where stop required.
Section
7-1084   Signs to bear the word "Stop."
Section
7-1085   Vehicles to stop at stop signs.
Section
7-1086   Emerging from alley, driveway, or buildings.
Section
7-1087   Stop when traffic obstructed.
Section 7-1088 through 7-1090 reserved.
ARTICLE I Miscellaneous Driving Rules
Section
7-1091   Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers.
Section
7-1092   Entering or riding vehicle without consent of owner or driver.
Section
7-1093   Passengers to remain inside vehicle.
Section
7-1094   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles.
Section
7-1095   Clinging to moving vehicles.
Section
7-1096   Riders of motorcycles to have hands on handlebars.
Section
7-1097   Skating on sidewalks.
Section
7-1098   Use of skates, coasters, etc., in roadway.
Section
7-1099   Use of horn in quiet zones.
Section
7-1100   Angle parking of trucks and buses prohibited.
Section
7-1101   Backing to curb.
Section
7-1102   Unnecessary spinning of tires.
Section
7-1103   Compression braking prohibited.
Section 7-1104 through 7-1110 reserved.
ARTICLE J Pedestrians' Rights and Duties
Section
7-1111   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals.
Section
7-1112   Pedestrians' right-of-way in crosswalk.
Section
7-1113   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk.
Section
7-1114   Crossing at right angles.
Section
7-1115   When pedestrian shall yield.
Section
7-1116   Pedestrians walking along roadways.
Section
7-1117   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business.
Section
7-1118   Drivers to exercise due care.
Section 7-1119 through 7-1120 reserved.
ARTICLE K Regulations for Bicycles
Section
7-1121   Effect of regulations.
Section
7-1122   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles.
Section
7-1123   Obedience to traffic-control devices.
Section
7-1124   Riding on bicycles.
Section
7-1125   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths.
Section
7-1126   Speed.
Section
7-1127   Emerging from alley or driveway.
Section
7-1128   Carrying articles.
Section
7-1129   Parking.
Section
7-1130   Riding on sidewalks.
Section
7-1131   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles.
Section 7-1132 through 7-1140 reserved.
ARTICLE L Method of Parking
Section
7-1141   Standing or parking close to curb.
Section
7-1142   Signs or markings indicating angle parking.
Section
7-1143   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings.
Section
7-1144   Lights on parked vehicles.
Section
7-1145   Unattended vehicles.
Section
7-1146   Moving cars from parked positions.
Section 7-1147 through 7-1150 reserved.
ARTICLE M Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
Section
7-1151   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited. No signs required.
Section
7-1152   Parking not to obstruct traffic.
Section
7-1153   Parking in alleys.
Section
7-1154   All-night parking prohibited.
Section
7-1155   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited.
Section
7-1156   Parking adjacent to schools.
Section
7-1157   Standing or parking on one-way roadways.
Section
7-1158   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places.
Section
7-1159   Stopping, standing, or parking for primary purpose of advertising,
prohibited.
Section
7-1160   Parking trailers, RVs or boats on streets.
Section
7-1161   Parking or storage of certain vehicles in residential areas; when
nuisance.
Section 7-1162 through 7-1170 reserved.
ARTICLE N Stopping for Loading or Unloading Only
Section
7-1171   Loading and unloading zones.
Section
7-1172   Passenger loading zones.
Section
7-1173   Commercial loading zones.
Section
7-1174   Public carrier stops and stands.
Section
7-1175   Stopping, standing, and parking of busses and taxicabs regulated.
Section
7-1176   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands.
Section 7-1177 through 7-1180 reserved.
ARTICLE O Stopping, Standing, or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain
Streets
Section
7-1181   Application of article.
Section
7-1182   Regulations not exclusive.
Section
7-1183   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets.
Section
7-1184   Parking time limited on certain streets.
Section
7-1185   Parking signs required.
Section
7-1187   Parking prohibited between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
Section
7-1188   Reserved parking spaces.
Section 7-1189 through 7-1190 reserved.
ARTICLE P Parking Violations
Section
7-1191   Schedule of fines.
Section
7-1192   Definitions.
Section
7-1193   Two-hour limit.
Section
7-1194   Two-hour limit; interpretation.
Section
7-1195   When limit applies.
Section
7-1196   Property other than motor vehicle prohibited.
Section
7-1197   Prima facie evidence of ownership.
Section
7-1198   Each consecutive two-hour period a separate violation.
Section
7-1199   Unlawful to erase, remove or obliterate marks made by police.
Section
7-2000   Unlawful to evade article.
ARTICLE A
Words and Phrases Defined
Section 7-1001 Definitions of words and phrases.
   The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except in any instance where otherwise specifically provided or
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (1)   Alley. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   (2)   Authorized emergency vehicle. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal department or
public service corporations as are designed or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   (3)   Bicycle. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over twenty (20)
inches in diameter.
   (4)   Block. A portion of any street located between any two (2)
intersections of any two (2) streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each
other.
   (5)   Commercial vehicle. Any of the following motor vehicles that are
designed or used to transport passengers or property:
   a.   A Class A motor vehicle (as defined by the North Carolina General
Statues as such statutes now exist or may be hereafter amended) that has a
combined gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of at least 26,001 pounds and
includes as part of the combination a towed unit that has a GVWR of at least
10,001 pounds.
   b.   A Class B motor vehicle (as defined by the North Carolina General
Statutes as such statutes now exist or may be hereafter amended).
   c.   A Class C motor vehicle (as defined by the North Carolina General
Statutes as such statutes now exist or may be hereafter amended) that meets
either of the following descriptions:
   1.   Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver.
   2.   Is transporting hazardous materials and is required to be placarded in
accordance with 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F.
   d.   Any other motor vehicle included by federal regulation in the
definition of commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 U.S.C. Appendix Section
2716 (as such regulation now exists or may hereafter be amended).
   (6)   Compression release engine brake. An engine braking mechanism or
device, primarily installed on trucks that when activated opens exhaust valves
in the cylinder after the compression cycle, releasing the compressed air
trapping in the cylinders, and slowing the vehicle without the use of wheel
brakes (commonly referred to as a "Jake" brake, "Jacobs" brake, engine brake,
or dynamic braking device).
   (7)   Crosswalk. That portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included
within the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of such street or
roadway.
   (8)   Curb loading zone. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or
materials.
   (9)   Driver. Every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual
physical control of the operation of any vehicle.
   (10)   Freight curb loading zone. A space adjacent to a curb for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or
passengers.
   (11)   Intersection. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection
of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two (2) highways which join one another at or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every
crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway
shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such intersecting
highway also includes two (2) roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every
crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   (12)   Laned roadway. A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   (13)   Motorcycle. Every motor vehicle having as saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
   (14)   Motor vehicle. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every
vehicle designed to mn upon the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled
vehicle.
   (15)   Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein they
shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in
this Town.
   (16)   Official traffic-control device. Any sign, signal, marking or device,
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the
governing body by an designated official having jurisdiction through authority
given by the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
prohibiting or guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the
Town.
   (17)   Official traffic signals. Any device, whether manually, electrically
or mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and
to proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   (18)   Park. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers or cargo.
   (19)   Passenger curb loading zone. A place adjacent to curb reserved for
the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   (20)   Pedestrian. Any person afoot.
   (21)   Person. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
   (22)   Police officer. Every peace officer of the Town, including every
employee of the Town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make
arrests for any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (23)   Private road or driveway. Every way or place in private ownership and
used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   (24)   Public conveyance. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train
for transporting persons for a fare.
   (25)   Right-of-way. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or
roadway.
   (26)   Roadway. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway"
as used herein shall refer to any such roadways separately but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   (27)   Safety zone. The area or space officially set apart within any
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which space shall be so
protected or marked or indicated by visible and adequate markers or signs as
shall be visible at all times while so set apart as a safety zone for
pedestrians.
   (28)   Sidewalk. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   (29)   Standing. Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during such period of stopping.
   (30)   Stop. When required means the complete cessation of movement of any
vehicle.
   (31)   Stop or stopping. When prohibited, means any stopping of any vehicle,
except when such stopping means that it shall be necessary to stop such vehicle
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with direction of any
peace officer of the Town or by reason of any traffic-control sign or signal or
by reason of any emergency.
   (32)   Street and highway. The entire width between property lines of every
way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   (33)   Through highway. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop
signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
   (34)   Traffic. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all
kinds, conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly
or together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the Town.
   (35)   Traffic bureau. The traffic division of the Police Department of this
Town, or in the event a traffic division is not established, then said term
whenever used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Police Department of the
Town.
   (36)   Vehicle. Every device used in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon any street within the corporate
limits, and for the purposes of this chapter any bicycle shall be deemed a
vehicle.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/97; Amended by Ord. of 2/12/17)
Section 7-1002 through 7-1010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Traffic Administration
Section 7-1011 through 7-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
Section 7-1021 Application of chapter to person riding, propelling, etc.,
pushcarts, tractors, trailers, carts, animals, etc.
   Every person operating, riding, propelling or driving any pushcart, tractor,
trailer, bicycle, buggy, cart or other type of machine or conveyance or any
person riding or driving or leading an animal upon any of the public streets of
the Town shall be subject to the provision of this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
   Cross Reference: Bicycles generally, section
7-1121 et seq.
Section 7-1022    Public employees to obey traffic regulations.
   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of vehicles upon
streets shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this State or any other state, or any
county or city. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any such
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter by
State statute.
   State Law Reference: Rules of the road, G.S. 20-138 et seq.
Section 7-1023    Authority of police and fire department officials.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or such
officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic
laws and all the State vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (b)   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (c)   Officers of the fire department, rescue squad, and national guard,
when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the police in directing
traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
Section 7-1024 Obedience to police and fire department officials.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official.
Section 7-1025 Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties, applicable to
pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a
play street as authorized by ordinance.
Cross Reference: For provisions as to play streets see Section
7-1039 of this Chapter.
      Skateboarding prohibited on municipal property, Section
8-6018.
Section 7-1026 Authorized emergency vehicles.
   (a)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (b)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
   (l)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
   (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing
down as may be necessary for safe operation;
   (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
   (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (c)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one (l) lighted lamp displaying a
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (d)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
Section 7-1027 through 7-1030 reserved.
ARTICLE D
Traffic-Control Devices
Section 7-1031 Obedience to signs, etc., generally.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under section
7-1026.
Section 7-1032 Signs as prerequisite to enforcement.
   No provisions of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever any particular section in this chapter
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective without
signs being placed to give notice thereof.
Section 7-1033 Specifications for traffic-control devices.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to State
regulations. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location. All traffic-
control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of State
law or this article shall be official traffic control devices.
Section 7-1034 Sign inventory system established.
   (a)   A sign inventory system is hereby established for the Town, which
shall include an official route numbering system, route numbering listing, and
traffic control device inventory cards, all of which shall be maintained at the
Town garage. The Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton does hereby approve
the location of signs as indicated by said route numbering system, route
numbering listing, and traffic-control device inventory cards.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to violate the requirement of any sign on any
street, which sign is included in the sign inventory system.
   (c)   Any future signs added to said sign inventory system shall be approved
and added to the Canton Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 3/8/77)
Section 7-1035    Traffic-control signal legend.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals (Appendix i,
Section 101) exhibiting the words, "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights successively one at a time, or with arrows, the
following colors only shall be used and said terms and light shall indicate and
apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (l)   Green alone or "Go."
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
   b.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (2)   Yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or "Go"
signal.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red or
"Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "Stop"
signal is exhibited.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   (3)   Red alone or "Stop."
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone. Provided, however, that if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns
on red lights, the vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a
complete stop. Streets on which right turns on red are not allowed are set out
in Appendix I, Section 102 hereof.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal. w
   (4)   Red with green arrow.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   (5)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
Section 7-1036 Pedestrian control signals.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Don't Walk" are in place such signals shall indicate as follows:
   (l)   "Walk." Pedestrians facing such signals may proceed across the highway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (2)   "Don't Walk." No pedestrian shall start to cross the highway in the
direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his
crossing on the "Walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the "Don't Walk" signal is showing.
Section 7-1037 Flashing signals.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign. In no event shall such vehicle be driven into
such crosswalk unless and until such entry can be made with safety to other
persons and property at such place.
   (2)   Flashing yellow (Caution signal) (Appendix I, Section 103). When a
yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or
operators of vehicles may proceed through such intersection past such signal
only with caution.
Section 7-1038 Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings.
   (a)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device, sign or signal.
   (b)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (c)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (d)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
Section 7-1039 Interference with official traffic-control devices, signs or
signals.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter, de
face, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
Section 7-1040 Authority to establish play streets.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise
the greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Code of 1941, C. G., Art. IV, Sec. 5)
Section 7-1041 Traffic lanes.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of
any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to
making a lawful turning movement.
Section 7-1042 Zone of quiet.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within-such zone shall not sound the horn or any
other warning device, except in an emergency.
(Code of 1941, C. G., Art. IV, (Sec. 4)
Section 7-1043 School zones.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street, or part
thereof, as a school zone, drivers of motor vehicles using said street, shall
exercise the greatest care for the protection of children.
(Code of 1941, C. G., Art. IV, Sec. 6)
Section 7-1044 Yield signs.
   Whenever yield right-of-way signs are used they shall require vehicular
traffic to yield the right-of-way to other intersecting traffic from any other
road or street. Yield right-of-way signs shall be located at the streets
designated in the uniform traffic control device inventory, hereby made a part
hereof.
Section 7-1045 through 7-1050 reserved.
ARTICLE E
Speed Regulations
Section 7-1051 General.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of thIrty-five (35) miles per hour inside the
municipal corporate limits.
   State Law Reference: Speed limits generally, G.5. 20-141.
Section 7-1052 Exceptions.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon the streets within the city
in excess of speed limit signs posted at designated streets, pursuant to the
uniform traffic control device inventory, hereby incorporated herein.
Section 7-1053 through 7-1060 reserved.
ARTICLE F
Turning Movements
Section 7-1061 Turning markers.
   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indications.
Section 7-1062 Authority to place restricted turn signs.
   The Board shall determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left, or Upturn and shall place proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are
permitted. Restrictions on turning movements shall be as specified in the
uniform traffic-control device inventory, hereby incorporated herein.
Section 7-1063 Obedience to no-turn signs.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign.
Section 7-1064 Limitations on turning around.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
Section 7-1065 through 7-1070 reserved.
ARTICLE G
One-way Streets and Alleys
Section 7-1071 Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley there shall be
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
Section 7-1072 One-way streets and alleys.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in the
uniform traffic-control device inventory, hereby made a part hereof, vehicular
traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the
direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
Section 7-1073 through 7-1080 reserved.
ARTICLE H
Special Stops Required
Section 7-1081 Through streets designated.
   Those streets and parts of streets described in the uniform traffic-control
device inventory hereby made a part hereof, are declared to be through streets
for the purpose of this article.
Section 7-1082 Authority to erect stop signs.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting such through street
or intersecting portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of two (2)
such through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy
traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches
of either of said streets.
Section 7-1083 Intersections where stop required.
   The Board may determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists upon other than through streets and may determine whether vehicles shall
stop at one (l) or more entrances to any such stop intersection, and shall
erect a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required. Such places are
specified in the uniform traffic-control device inventory, hereby made a part
here of.
Section 7-1084 Signs to bear the word "Stop."
   Every sign erected pursuant to this article shall bear the word "Stop" in
letters not less than eight (8) inches in height and such signs shall at
nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or
by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located
as near as practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
Section 7-1085 Vehicles to stop at stop signs.
   When stop signs are erected as herein authorized at or near the entrance to
any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in the event there is no
crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
Section 7-1086 Emerging from alley, driveway, or buildings.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
Section 7-1087 Stop when traffic obstructed.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
Sections 7-1088 through 7-1090 reserved.
ARTICLE I
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
Section 7-1091 Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers.
   No person shall ride in or upon any portion of a public conveyance or
vehicle not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or
to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not carry
any person upon the handlebar, frame or tank of such vehicle, nor shall any
person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-6)
Section 7-1092 Entering or riding vehicle without consent of owner or driver.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-7)
Section 7-1093 Passengers to remain inside vehicle.
   No person riding in any vehicle shall allow any part of his body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he is a passenger.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-8)
Section 7-1094 Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-9)
Section 7-1095 Clinging to moving vehicles.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon any
roadway.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-10)
Section 7-1096 Riders of motorcycles to have hands on handlebars.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his hands upon the handlebars.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-Il)
   State Law Reference: See G.S. 20-140.4, 20-146.1 for special provisions on
motorcycles
Section 7-1097 Skating on sidewalks.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate on any sidewalk in a business
district.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-12)
   Cross Reference: Bicycles not to be ridden on sidewalks in business
district, section
7-1130. Bicycles generally, section
7-1121 et seq.
Section 7-1098 Use of skates, coasters, etc., in roadway.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street at a crosswalk or intersection, and except upon streets set aside as
play streets.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-13)
Section 7-1099 Use of horn in quiet zones.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating a zone
of quiet, no person operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound
the horn or other warning device of such vehicle, except in an emergency.
(Code 1963,Sec. 13-33)
   Cross Reference: Unnecessary noise created by vehicle horns generally,
section 96009(b)(1).
Section 7-1100 Angle parking of trucks and buses prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon the streets of
the Town at any angle or in any manner other than parallel with the curb where
and if the vehicle is of greater length than the average sedan. It is the
purpose of this section to prohibit the parking of trucks and buses on any
streets of the Town in any manner other than parallel with the curb and then
only where parallel parking is permitted.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-75)
Section 7-1101 Backing to curb.
   No person shall back any vehicle to a curb or sidewalk for any purpose.
(Code 1963, Sec. 13-76)
Section 7-1102 Unnecessary spinning of tires.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle in the Town to
cause, in the operation of his vehicle, noise to be made by unnecessarily
spinning the tires of such vehicle.
(Code 1963, Sec. 1341)
Section 7-1103 Compression braking prohibited.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any
street, road, or highway within the town's jurisdiction to engage and/or
activate a compression release engine brake (sometimes referred to as a "Jake
brake") and/or downshift and release the clutch to utilize the vehicle's engine
to slow, except in case of emergency for the purpose of avoiding a collision
with another object, person or vehicle. The burden in each case shall be upon
the vehicle operator to establish the existence of the emergency.
   (b)   This prohibition does not apply to the operation of vehicles that are
owned or leased by governmental entities and which are being operated within
the scope and purpose of a governmental use.
   (c)   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with Part 1,
Chapter 1, Section
1-1005.
(Ord. of 2/12/17)
Section 7-1104 through 7-1110 reserved.
ARTICLE J
Pedestrians' Rights and Duties
Section 7-1111 Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore
declared in sections
7-1034 and
7-1035 of this chapter, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted
those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
Section 7-1112 Pedestrians' right-of-way in crosswalk.
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle,
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A pedestrian's
right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and as stated in
section
7-1115(b).
   (b)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
Section 7-1113 Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
Section 7-1114 Crossing at right angles.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angels to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
Section 7-1115 When pedestrian shall yield.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
Section 7-1116 Pedestrians walking along roadways.
   (a)   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
Section 7-1117 Pedestrians soliciting rides or business.
   (a)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
Section 7-1118 Drivers to exercise due care.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this article every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway; shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary; and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
Section 7-1119 through 7-1120 reserved.
ARTICLE K
Regulations for Bicycles
Section 7-1121 Effect of regulations.
   (a)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this article.
   (b)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
Section 7-1122 Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this article and except as to those provisions of laws
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
Section 7-1123 Obedience to traffic-control devices.
   (a)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (b)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which even such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
Section 7-1124 Riding on bicycles.
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
Section 7-1125 Riding on roadways and bicycle paths.
   (a)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast exception paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
   (c)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
Section 7-1126 Speed.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
Section 7-1127 Emerging from alley or driveway.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building,
shall upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approachIng on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
Section 7-1128 Carrying articles.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one (l) hand upon the
handlebars.
Section 7-1129 Parking.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
Section 7-1130 Riding on sidewalks.
   (a)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (b)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when such signs
are in place no person shall disobey the same.
   (c)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
Section 7-1131 Lamps and other equipment on bicycles.
   (a)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from fifty (50) feet to 300 feet to the
rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of head lamps on a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (b)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whIstle.
   (c)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the brake wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
Section 7-1132 through 7-1140 reserved.
ARTICLE L
Method of Parking
Section 7-1141 Standing or parking close to curb.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within eighteen (18) inches of
the curb or edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this article.
Section 7-1142 Signs or markings indicating angle parking.
   (a)   The Board shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, which are specified in Appendix
I, Section 104, hereby made a part hereof.
   (b)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
Section 7-1143 Obedience to angle parking signs or markings.
   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
Section 7-1144 Lights on parked vehicles.
   (a)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street
within a business or residence district no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
   (b)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon a street or highway outside of a
business or residence district during the hours between one-half (112) hour
after sunset and one-half (112) hour before sunrise, such vehicle shall be
equipped with one or more lamps which shall exhibit a white or amber light on
the roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
   (c)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
Section 7-1145 Unattended vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the engine or motor of any
motor vehicle running while the same is standing parked upon the streets.
Section 7-1146 Moving cars from parked positions.
   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angie until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed in.
Section 7-1147 through 7-1150 reserved.
ARTICLE M
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
Section 7-1151 Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited. No signs required.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
   (1)   On a sidewalk;
   (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (3)   Within an intersection;
   (4)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
   (5)   On a crosswalk;
   (6)   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (7)   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30) feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
signs or markings indicate a different length;
   (9)   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (10)   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy-five (75) feet of said entrance (when properly signposted);
   (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (12)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel;
   (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
   (15)   In front of any mail receptacle preventing the delivery of postal
service and allowing at least 16 feet, 8 feet on either side of mail receptacle
to allow delivery vehicle access.
   (b)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Amended by Ord. of 4-27-23)
Section 7-1152 Parking not to obstruct traffic.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
Section 7-1153 Parking in alleys.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley, in such position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
Section 7-1154 All-night parking prohibited.
   When respective signs are placed in certain streets, no person shall park a
vehicle between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. upon any of the
streets described in the uniform traffic-control device inventory, hereby made
a part hereof, provided that this section shall not apply to automobiles, or
other vehicles, if their owners are at work in the building, or on the
premises, near which said vehicles are parked.
Section 7-1155 Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the Town for the principal purposes of:
   (1)   Displaying for sale;
   (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (3)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when such storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of such automobile or other
vehicle; and
   (4)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
vehicle to another.
Section 7-1156 Parking adjacent to schools.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person shall
park a vehicle in any such designated place.
Section 7-1157 Standing or parking on one-way roadways.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
Section 7-1158 No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested
places.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
Section 7-1159 Stopping, standing, or parking for primary purpose of
advertising, prohibited.
   No person shall stand, or park, on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
Section 7-1160 Parking trailers, RVs or boats on streets.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park campers, RVs, motor homes, farm
trailers or equipment, animal trailers or equipment, boats or boat trailers,
whether or not attached to a vehicle, on any street.
(Ord. of 8/10/82; Amended by Ord. of 10/28/08)
Section 7-1161 Parking or storage of certain vehicles in residential areas;
when nuisance.
   (a)   The Mayor and Board of Aldermen finds that the parking or storage of
certain vehicles in residential areas is detrimental to the health, safety, and
general welfare of the town and to the peace and dignity of such areas because
of noise, odor, and smoke associated with such vehicles and constitutes a
public nuisance. Thus in order to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the town and the peace and dignity of residential areas, no
commercial vehicle, 2- 1/2 tons or larger, that is powered by a diesel or gas
engine, or that is designed to pull semi-trailers, and no other commercial
vehicle as defined in division (c) herein shall be parked or stored on any
property and/or streets in any residential district.
   (b)   Any person, firm, organization, or corporation violating this section
shall be punished for each offense with a fine not exceed $50, or imprisonment
not exceeding 30 days. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (c)   In addition to the definition set forth in Article A of this chapter,
"commercial vehicle" shall be defined to mean any of the following motor
vehicles that are designed or used to transport passengers or property:
   (1)   A Class A motor vehicle (as defined by the North Carolina General
Statues as such statutes now exist or may be hereafter amended) that has a
combined gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of at least 26,001 pounds and
includes as part of the combination a towed unit that has a GVWR of at least
10,001 pounds.
   (2)   A Class B motor vehicle (as defined by the North Carolina General
Statutes as such statutes now exist or may be hereafter amended).
   (3)   A Class C motor vehicle (as defined by the North Carolina General
Statutes as such statutes now exist or may be hereafter amended) that meets
either of the following descriptions:
   (A)   Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver.
   (B)   Is transporting hazardous materials and is required to be placarded in
accordance with 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F.
   (4)   Any other motor vehicle included by federal regulation in the
definition of commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 U.S.C. Appendix Section
2716 (as such regulation now exists or may hereafter be amended).
   (5)   To include any vehicle with a registered gross weight of more than
10,000 pounds.
(Ord. of 1/9/89; Amended by Ord. of 6/11/96; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/97)
Section 7-1162 through 7-1170 reserved.
ARTICLE N
Stopping for Loading or Unloading Only
Section 7-1171 Loading and unloading zones.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this article and when signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this article.
Section 7-1172 Passenger loading zones.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in the uniform traffic-control
device inventory, hereby incorporated herein, are hereby designated as
passenger loading and unloading zones, and no person shall stop, stand or park
a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose
other than the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, and then only
for a period not to exceed ten (10) minutes.
Section 7-1173 Commercial loading zones.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in the uniform traffic-control
device inventory, hereby incorporated herein, are hereby designated as
commercial loading and unloading zones and no person shall stop, stand or park
a vehicle therein for any purpose other than the expeditious unloading and
delivery, or pickup and loading of materials and goods, and then only for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) minutes.
(Ord. of 3/8/77, as amended by this Code)
Section 7-1174 Public carrier stops and stands.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as specified in the
uniform traffic-control device inventory, hereby made a part hereof.
Section 7-1175 Stopping, standing, and parking of busses and taxicabs
regulated.
   (a)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   (b)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at o bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
   (c)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not farther than eighteen (18) inches from the
curb, and the bus approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly
impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (d)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
Section 7-1176 Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus, or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such
zone.
Section 7-1177 through 7-1180 reserved.
ARTICLE O
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
Section 7-1181 Application of article.
   The provisions of this article prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police owner or official traffic-control device.
Section 7-1182 Regulations not exclusive.
   The provisions of this article imposing a time limit on parking shall not
retrieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
Section 7-1183 Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof. no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets described in the uniform traffic-control
device inventory, hereby made a part hereof.
Section 7-1184 Parking time limited on certain streets.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or upon
any of the streets described in the uniform traffic-control device inventory,
hereby made a part hereof.
Section 7-1185 Parking signs required.
   Whenever by this or any other article any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited on designated streets there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and no such regulations shall be effective unless said
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
Section 7-1186 Vehicles not to stop in streets, exceptions.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless such stop is made necessary by the approach
of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is
given right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the lowering of
railway gates, by being given countermanding traffic signals, by the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency; in all cases covered
by these exceptions said vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing, or street intersection if it can be
avoided.
Section 7-1187 Parking prohibited between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   No person shall park a vehicle after the hour of six (6) o'clock, P.M., and
before the hour of six (6) o'clock, A.M., on the streets or portion of streets
specified in the uniform traffic-control device inventory, hereby made a part
hereof.
Section 7-1188 Reserved parking spaces.
   The Town Manager and Town Clerk are authorized to designate and reserve
parking places in the areas abutting the Municipal Building, and said Town
Manager and Town Clerk are to be in charge of all parking in said areas.
(Ord. of 1/14/86)
Section 7-1189 through 7-1190 reserved.
ARTICLE P
Parking Violations
Section 7-1191 Schedule of fines.
   (a)   In accordance with G.S. 160A-175, the violation of all parking
violations in the Town are not subject to the penalty provisions of G.S. 14-4;
the violation is not of the penal laws of the state; instead, parking
violations shall subject the offender to a civil penalty, to be recovered by
the Town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay
the penalty.
   (b)   Persons violating parking regulations shall be subject to the
following schedule of civil penalties to be recovered by the Town in a civil
action:
   (1)   Meter violation   $ 1.00
   (2)   Overtime parking   5.00
   (3)   Improper parking   8.00
   (4)   Parking in restricted area   10.00
   (5)   Parking in loading zone   5.00
   (6)   Double parking   10.00
   (7)   Parking in no parking zone   10.00
   (8)   Parking in Handicapped Space   50.00
   (9)   Parking in fire zone   10.00
   (10)   Prohibited area   8.00
   (11)   Too close to fire plug   8.00
   (12)   Too close to intersection   8.00
   (13)   Too close to stop sign   8.00
   (14)   Wrong direction   5.00
   (15)   Parked across lines   5.00
   (16)   Obstructing traffic lane   10.00
   (17)   Blocking private driveway   5.00
   (18)   Alley   5.00
   (19)   In cross walk   5.00
(Ord. of 10/13/81; as amended by Ord. of 9/23/86; as amended by Ord. of 4/10/
90; as amended by Ord. of 6-22-99)
Section 7-1192 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall mean:
   (1)   Parking Space. The area on the street abutting and parallel to the
curb eight (8) feet in width for a parallel parking space and eighteen (18)
feet in width for an angle parking space.
   (2)   Parking Zone. The area and parking spaces located on each block. The
zone extends for the entire block.
   (3)   Park. To stop a motor vehicle and keep it standing within a parking
zone on a public street for any period of time.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-1193 Two-hour limit.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a motor vehicle in any parking
zone or parking space, as defined for more than two (2) consecutive hours.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-1194 Two-hour limit; interpretation.
   (a)   To interrupt the continuity of the allowable two-hour period of
parking, a motor vehicle must be out of the specific parking zone for more than
one (1) hour.
   (b)   The period of two (2) hours for permissible parking within a parking
zone shall begin at the time the motor vehicle is first parked within the zone
and the two-hour period shall not be interrupted until the vehicle is out of
this parking zone for a period of one (1) hour. This provision is for the
purpose of preventing a person from moving a motor vehicle out of the parking
space temporarily and back into the same or other space within the same parking
zone with the intent to defeat the two-hour parking limit of the parking zone
and to obtain additional free parking within that zone in excess of the two-
hour parking limit.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-1195 When limit applies.
   The parking time limit fixed and established by this article shall apply
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. and shall not apply on
Sundays or on the following holidays: New Years Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any other legal holiday declared by the
town.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-1196 Property other than motor vehicle prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful to park or store any property other than a motor
vehicle within any of the above-defined parking zones.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-1197 Prima facie evidence of ownership.
   Proof of ownership of the motor vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that
the person parking the motor vehicle in the parking zone is the owner of the
vehicle.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-1198 Each consecutive two-hour period a separate violation.
   It shall be a separate violation for each consecutive two-hour parking
period that a person allows his motor vehicle to remain parked in the same
parking zone.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-1199 Unlawful to erase, remove or obliterate marks made by police.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erase, remove or obliterate any mark
placed on a tire of a motor vehicle by a member of the police department for
the purpose of enforcing this article with the intent to obstruct, prevent or
interfere with the enforcement thereof.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
Section 7-2000 Unlawful to evade article.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to affix a parking ticket to, or allow
the ticket to remain on, his windshield after the date of issue of the ticket
for the purpose of evading, obstructing or interfering with the enforcement of
this article.
(Ord. of 4/9/96)
PART 8
Offenses
CHAPTER 1
Disorderly Conduct
Section
8-1001   Consumption of wine and malt beverages in public.
Section
8-1002   Prostitution.
Section
8-1003   Public drunkenness, other nuisances.
Section
8-1004   Gambling.
Section
8-1005   Town property disorderly conduct thereon: destroying, interfering
with, etc.
Section
8-1006   Reward for information.
Section 8-1001 Consumption of wine and malt beverages in public.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any malt beverage or
unfortified wines as defined by G.S. 18A-2 on or within the rights-of-way of
the municipal streets, boulevards, alleys, and sidewalks, in municipal parks
and buildings, or other property owned or occupied by the Town with the
following exceptions:
   (1)   It shall be lawful if said person is an attendee or participant of a
“special event,” which has been approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/
women of the Town through the special event permitting process and upon
approval of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
(Amended by Ord. of 8/14/14)
   State Law Reference: Authority to regulate public consumption of beer and
wine, G.S. 18A-35(a).
Section 8-1002 Prostitution.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, on any of the streets or public places,
to solicit for purposes of prostitution.
   State Law Reference: Prostitution, G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27.
Section 8-1003 Public drunkenness, other nuisances.
   It is hereby declared a nuisance and forbidden for any person to be found
upon the streets or in a public place within the corporate limits of the Town
in a state of intoxication, or to use loud, boisterous, vulgar or profane
language or indecently expose his or her person in the Town.
   State Law Reference: Offenses against the public peace, G.S. Chapter 14,
Article 35.
Section 8-1004 Gambling.
   It shall be unlawful to play any game of chance at which money, property or
other things of value are wagered, whether the same be at stake or not.
   State Law Reference: Lotteries and gambling offenses, G.S. Chapter 14,
Article 37.
Section 8-1005 Town property; disorderly conduct thereon; destroying,
interfering with, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any of the property
owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the Town and act in a disorderly
manner or abuse, destroy, or interfere with such property or the operation
thereof. Property to which this section applies shall include the Town Hall,
Armory Building, water and sewer lines, fire hydrants and all other property
owned or controlled by the Town, whether inside or outside of the limits.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-18)
   State Law Reference: Jurisdiction of police officers generally, G.S. 160A-
286, G.S. 15A-402.
   Cross Reference: Jurisdiction of police officers on Town property outside
corporate limits, Related Local Laws, p. L-2.
Section 8-1006 Reward for information.
   The Town offers a $50 reward to any person furnishing information leading to
the arrest and conviction of any person, persons or corporations damaging any
shrubbery, trees, flowers, or any other personal property belonging to the
Town.
CHAPTER 2
Animals
Section
8-2001   Definitions.
Section
8-2002   Animals not to run at large.
Section
8-2003   Keeping of animals in Town.
Section
8-2004   Exemptions for sanctioned educational purposes and agricultural
business.
Section
8-2005   Keeping of swine prohibited.
Section
8-2006   Permits.
Section
8-2007   Applicability.
Section
8-2008   Animals creating a nuisance.
Section
8-2009   Town designated as bird sanctuary.
Section
8-2010   Trapping and shooting birds.
Section
8-2011   Pets not allowed in Recreation Park.
Section 8-2001 Definitions.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided or unless otherwise clearly required
by the context, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning
indicated when used in this chapter:
   (1)   Animal. Any live, vertebrate creature specifically including but not
limited to dogs, cats, livestock, birds, fish and reptiles.
   (2)   Domestic animal. A domesticated or tame animal that is kept
principally as a pet, except that livestock (other than rabbits kept as pets
and not for productive purposes) and wild animals shall not be regarded as
domestic animals.
   (3)   Livestock. Animals raised for the production of meat, milk, eggs,
fiber or used for draft or equestrian purposes, including but not limited to
horses, mules, cows, swine, potbellied pigs, goats, llamas, ostriches, sheep,
fowl (such as chickens, ducks, turkeys, etc.), rabbits, and all other animals
that typically are kept primarily for productive or useful purposes rather than
as pets.
   (4)   Running at large. Any animal shall be deemed to be running at large
when it is off the real property of its owner or its keeper, and not under the
restraint of a competent person. For purposes of this definition, the term
“real property of its owner or keeper” shall include any property owned or
occupied by the owner or keeper of such animal but shall not include any of the
common areas (including without limitation, walks, drives, recreation and open
space areas, etc.) within any subdivision or multifamily residential
development.
(Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
Section 8-2002 Animals not to run at large.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has possession, either by
virtue of ownership or otherwise, of any animal to allow it to run at large in
the Town. All such animals shall be confined at all times in some type of
enclosure, meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to cats unless a cat
is engaged in one or more of the following behaviors:
   (1)   Habitually urinates in sandboxes, plant beds, or private property;
   (2)   Is a female in heat and not confined in such a manner as to prevent
contact with another cat;
   (3)   Habitually or repeatedly injures or kills animals or birds, whether
domesticated or not;
   (4)   Habitually or repeatedly, without provocation, chases or attacks
pedestrians, bicyclists or other animals being walked on a leash; or
   (5)   Seriously interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment by
neighboring residents of their property because of its howling, whining,
crying, or other noise making.
   (c)   The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to any area of the
Town property designated by resolution of the Board of Aldermen/women as a
“leash-free” area.
   (d)   It shall be lawful for the Town, acting through its police officers
and employees, to take all animals that are unrestrained and running at large
to the County Animal Shelter where they shall then be subject to the laws,
rules, and regulations of the County Animal Shelter.
(Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
Section 8-2003 Keeping of animals in Town.
   (a)   No person may keep within the Town livestock except in accordance with
subsections (b) and (c).
   (b)   Livestock are only permissible in zoning districts which allow animals
and domestic farming as uses by right.
   (c)   Livestock are not permitted unless the owner demonstrates that the
livestock will be kept on a tract of land that satisfies each of the following
conditions:
   (1)   The tract shall consist of at least 40,000 square feet of land under
single ownership or control.
   (2)   There shall be at least 20,000 square feet of land per animal.
   (3)   Every part of a lot set aside for livestock shall be completely
enclosed with fencing.
   (4)   Barns, pens, or similar structures used for the keeping of livestock
other than rabbits or fowl shall not be erected or maintained within ten feet
of any property line or street right-of- way or closer than 100 feet to the
nearest dwelling, residence, or sleeping quarters of any person, other than the
animal owner.
   (5)   Barns, cages, coops, pens, or similar structures used for the keeping
of rabbits or fowl shall not be erected or maintained within ten feet of any
property line or street right-of- way line or closer than 50 feet to the
nearest dwelling, residence, or sleeping quarters of any person, other than the
animal owner, shall only be permitted in rear and side yards, and shall not be
kept between any street and a line drawn parallel to the street, facing walls
of a residence.
   (6)   Structures and enclosures in existence prior to the passage of the
ordinance shall be grandfathered in until the structure is demolished or
repaired at a cost that exceeds 50% of the structure’s value.
   (d)   The provisions set forth above in (c)(1) and (c)(2) shall not apply to
rabbits, fowl, or goats. However, approval for such animals is conditional upon
the owner meeting the provisions of (c)(3), (c)(4), (c)(5), and (c)(6) and
demonstrating compliance with the following conditions:
   (1)   Such livestock may be kept only on a lot used for residential purposes
and only for the domestic consumption of persons who reside at that lot and not
for commercial purposes.
   (2)   Goats must have adequate roaming and shelter space in conformance with
generally accepted animal care standards and in a manner that does not create a
nuisance.
   (3)   All goats must have a house or shelter appropriately constructed with
a roof that will provide adequate protection from the elements.
   (4)   Fowl coops and pens shall be designed in such a manner as to provide:
   a.   Security against inclement weather and invasion by predators;
   b.   Adequate ventilation or window openings to allow the circulation of
sunlight and air;
   c.   A minimum of two and one-half square feet of floor area for each bird;
and
   d.   A minimum of five square feet of ground area for each bird.
   (5)   Fowl coops shall be cleaned regularly with all droppings and organic
waste material managed, removed, and disposed of in an appropriate manner and
runs or pens shall be managed so as to prevent erosion, minimize odor, prevent
the breeding of flies, and prevent the occurrence of infectious disease.
   (6)   Roosters are not permitted with the following exception:
   a.   Roosters that are present prior to the effective date of this chapter
are grandfathered for the life of the rooster so long as the owner of the
rooster maintains compliance with this chapter and the rooster does not create
a public nuisance.
(Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
Section 8-2004 Exemptions for sanctioned educational purposes and agricultural
business.
   The provisions in Section
8-2003 shall not apply to retail agricultural businesses within Town limits or
sites used for educational purposes, sanctioned by the County school system.
(Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
Section 8-2005 Keeping of swine prohibited.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, it shall be unlawful for
any person to keep, own or maintain any hogs, pigs, potbelly pigs or any swine
within the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 3-4) (Amended by Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
Section 8-2006 Permits.
   (a)   Persons keeping fowl within the Town shall first secure an annual
permit from the code enforcement officer for the Town and shall renew such
permit each year thereafter, on or before the anniversary of such permit. The
code enforcement officer may impose such reasonable conditions as are necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public. Permits may be revoked
by the code enforcement officer at any time upon violation of the terms of the
permit or any provision of this section.
   (b)   Permit fees shall be set forth in the Town fee schedule.
   (c)   The code enforcement officer shall have the power to conduct such
investigations as the administrator may reasonably deem necessary to carry out
his or her duties as prescribed in this section and, for this purpose, to enter
at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purposes of
inspection, determination of plan compliance, and investigating and inspecting
the sites of any complaints or alleged violations of this section.
   (d)   The code enforcement officer shall have the power to require written
statements, certificates, certifications, or the filing of reports with respect
to pertinent questions relating to complaints or alleged violations of this
section.
(Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
Section 8-2007 Applicability.
   (a)   The provisions of Section
8-2003 shall not apply to the following circumstances:
   (1)   Livestock present within the Town (or present on property that is
subsequently annexed) on or after the effective date of this chapter, or to
replacements for such livestock, or to animals born to such livestock. However,
additional livestock may not be added unless all of the provisions of this
chapter are complied with.
   (b)   The provisions of this chapter are subject to the provisions of G.S.
106-701.
(Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
Section 8-2008 Animals creating a nuisance.
   (a)   No owner or keeper may have within the Town, after receiving a notice
of removal, any animal that:
   (1)   Damages, soils, or defiles private or public property;
   (2)   Interferes with, molests, attacks, and/or inflicts injury on persons
or other animals;
   (3)   Is found repeatedly at large;
   (4)   Causes unsanitary and offensive conditions;
   (5)   Chases, snaps at, harasses or impedes pedestrians, bicyclists, or
vehicles (does not apply if animal is adequately restrained by a fence or
enclosure);
   (6)   Exhibits evidence of disease; or
   (7)   Interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment by neighboring
residents of their property because of its odor or excessive noise making. For
purposes of this subsection, excessive noise making shall include repeated
episodes of barking, howling, whining, crying, crowing, or other noise making
that:
   a.   Is audible on premises other than the premises where the noise-making
animal is located (including other dwelling units located on the same tract of
land); and
   b.   By reason of the time of day or night that they occur, their duration,
and/or their frequency, would tend to annoy or disrupt the peace and
tranquility of a person of reasonable sensibilities.
   (b)   If the code enforcement officer determines that any animal is creating
a nuisance as described in subsection (a), he/she shall in writing inform the
animal’s owner of the nature of the violation(s) and shall indicate that unless
these violations are corrected and/or measures taken to prevent their
recurrence within 48 hours, the owner shall be required to remove the animal
from the Town within five days.
   (c)   If the code enforcement officer determines that any animal cited for a
violation of subsection (a) has, more than 48 hours after service of the notice
prescribed in subsection (b), continues to cause a nuisance as described in the
subsection, then he/she shall, in writing, notify the animal’s owner that the
animal must forthwith be removed from the Town within five days.
(Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
   Cross Reference: Noise, Section
8-6019
Section 8-2009 Town designated as bird sanctuary.
   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the Town is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Code 1963, Sec. 3-7) (Amended by Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
   State Law Reference: Authority to create bird sanctuary within Town, G.S.
160A-188.
Section 8-2010 Trapping and shooting birds.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to
shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or
wild fowl nests within the Town. If starlings or similar birds are found to be
congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a
nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health
authorities, such health authorities shall meet with representatives of the
Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club or Humane Society, or as many of such
clubs as are found to exist in the Town, after having given at least three
days’ actual notice of the time and place of such meeting to the
representatives of such clubs.
   (b)   If, as a result of such meeting no satisfactory alternative is found
to abate such nuisance, such birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such
manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities under the supervision
of the Chief of Police.
(Code 1963, Sec. 3-8) (Amended by Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 1)
   Cross Reference: General prohibition against discharging firearms, Section
8-6007.
Section 8-2011 Pets not allowed in Recreation Park.
   (a)   The term “pet” shall mean any non-service dog or animal.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or handler of any pet(s) to allow
the pet(s) to run freely and unleashed anywhere within the boundaries of
Recreation Park.
   (c)   Subject to the provisions of Section
8-2010 it shall be unlawful for the owner or handler of any pet(s) to allow a
pet to be on any portion of Recreation Park property except for the perimeter
paved walking trail located within the park or within six feet of the edge of
the paved walking trail. Owners and handlers are only permitted to access
walking trail from impervious parking areas. Traversing lawn areas of
Recreation Park to reach the walking trail is not permitted.
   (d)   Pets on the walking trail must be leashed at all times and said leash
shall not exceed six feet in length. Owners are solely responsible for injuries
or damages caused by their pet(s).
   (e)   The Town expressly reserves the right to entirely exclude pets on all
Town property during certain events. In such case, the municipal property shall
be posted to give notice to the public of said temporary total exclusion of
pets.
   (f)   Every owner or handler of any pet shall attempt to exercise control
over said pet so as to prevent the animal from defecating on municipal
property. In the event that said pet defecates on any property, the owner or
handler shall take immediate action to pick up and properly dispose of said
waste in an appropriate trash receptacle (i.e. trash can, dog waste station,
etc.), provided along the walking trail. The absence or fullness of Town-
provided waste receptacles or absence of Town- provided waste bags does not
alleviate the pet owner or handler from the responsibility of picking up and
disposing of pet waste.
   (g)   Any person, owner or handler who is found to violate any of the
provisions set forth in the above sections, may be issued a fine in the amount
of $25 and/or be required to leave the walking trail of Recreation Park.
(Ord. of 7/28/93; amended by Ord. of 5/8/14; amended by Ord. of 5/14/15, sec.
1)
CHAPTER 3
Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
Section
8-3001   Administration.
Section
8-3002   Definitions.
Section
8-3003   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized.
Section
8-3004   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized.
Section
8-3005   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized.
Section
8-3006   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements.
Section
8-3007   Exceptions to prior notice requirement.
Section
8-3008   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements.
Section
8-3009   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle.
Section
8-3010   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings.
Section
8-3011   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle.
Section
8-3012   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property.
Section
8-3013   Protection against criminal or civil liability.
Section
8-3014   Exceptions.
Section
8-3015   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle.
Section 8-3001 Administration.
   The Police Department and Building Inspector shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be "abandoned" on the public streets and highways within the
Town, and on property owned by the Town. The Building Inspector with the
assistance of the Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of "abandoned," "nuisance" or "junked motor vehicles"
located on private property. The Town may, on an annual basis, contract with
private tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and dispose
of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in
compliance with this chapter and applicable State laws. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to limit the legal authority or powers of officers of the
Police Department and Fire Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise
carrying out their duties.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3002 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms are defined as
herein indicated:
   (1)   Abandoned vehicle. As authorized and defined in G.S. 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that:
   a.   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
   b.   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days; or
   c.   Is left on property owned or operated by the Town for longer than 24
hours; or
   d.   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner, occupant
or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   (2)   Authorizing official. The Chief of Police or the Building Inspector,
respectively, designated to authorize the removal of vehicles under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (3)   Junked motor vehicle. As authorized and defined in G.S. 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
   a.   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
   b.   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it originally
was intended to move; or
   c.   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   (4)   Motor vehicle or vehicle. All machines designed or intended to travel
over land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   (5)   Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, or a public nuisance,
or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
   a.   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
   b.   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over eight
inches in height;
   c.   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
   d.   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
   e.   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from the
inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
   f.   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or turning
over; or
   g.   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
   h.   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; and/or
   i.   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard and
a public nuisance by the Town of Canton.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3003 Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (b)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the Town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3004 Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle. Such
finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among other relevant
factors, may be considered:
   (1)   Protection of property values;
   (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
   (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
   (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
   (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (b)   Upon investigation, the Building Inspector may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard or a nuisance vehicle as defined
above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3005 Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicles must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (d)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (e) below, upon investigation,
the Building Inspector may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as
defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of
removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property
owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
   (1)   Protection of property values;
   (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
   (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
   (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
   (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (e)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicles:
   (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the rear
yard as defined by the Zoning Ordinance if the junked motor vehicle is entirely
concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting premises by
an acceptable covering.
   (2)   The Building Inspector has the authority to determine whether any
junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this provision. The
covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
   (3)   For instances of more than one junked motor vehicle, any other junked
motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a
complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a
public street or abutting property. A garage or building structure means either
a lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant
to the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3006 Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-
towing notice requirements.
   (a)   Except as set forth in Section
8-3007, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle that is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed. If such names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the Town on a specified date, but no sooner than
seven days after the notice is affixed. The notice shall state that the vehicle
will be removed by the Town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days
after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner
or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (b)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Aldermen in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Aldermen, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3007 Exceptions to prior notice requirement.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice includes:
   (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Aldermen hereby determines that immediate
removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
   a.   Obstructing traffic;
   b.   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking;
   c.   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
   d.   Parked in loading zones;
   e.   Parked in bus zones; or
   f.   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
code sections.
   (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on Town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3008 Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements.
   (a)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the Town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the Town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing Town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
   (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
   (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
   (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
   (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
   (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (b)   The Town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in subsections (1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (c)   If the vehicle is registered in the State, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the State, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (d)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing Town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in
subsections (1) through (5) above.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3009 Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition
of vehicle.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. 20-222, as amended.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3010 Redemption of vehicle during proceedings.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3011 Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the Town and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3012 Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property.
   As a general policy, the Town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable State law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the Town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Building Inspector. The Town may require any person requesting the removal
of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to
indemnify the Town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of
the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3013 Protection against criminal or civil liability.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3014 Exceptions.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (1)   which is located in a bona fide "automobile graveyard" or "junkyard,"
as defined in G.S. 136-143, in accordance with the "Junkyard Control Act," G.S.
136-141 et seq.;
   (2)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (3)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (4)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the Town.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
Section 8-3015 Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the Town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. of 9/25/01)
CHAPTER 4
Weeds and Vegetation
Section
8-4001   Control of weeds, grass, and other vegetation near streets.
Section
8-4002   Cutting weeds, grass, other vegetation.
Section
8-4003   Notification of violation; removal by Town.
Section
8-4004   Assessment of cost of removal.
Section
8-4005   Refusal or failure to comply with article; obstructing Town officials.
Section
8-4006   Grass cuttings on public streets.
Cross-reference: Weeds constituting a nuisance, see section
8-6015; collection and disposal of tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery; leaves;
removal of tree stumps, see section
4-2010.
Section 8-4001 Control of weeds, grass, and other vegetation near streets.
   No person having control of any occupied lot or any part thereof in the Town
shall permit or maintain on any such lot, or on or along tile sidewalk or
street adjacent to the same between the property line and the curb or middle of
the alley or for ten feet outside the property line if there is no curb, any
growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a height greater than nine
(9) inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush.
No person shall cause, suffer or allow poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous
or detrimental plants to grow on any such lot or land so that any part of such
ivy, ragweed or other poisonous or harmful weed shall extend upon, cover,
overhang or border any public place or allow seed, pollen or other poisonous
particles or emanations there from to be carried through the air into any
public place.
   State Law Reference: Abatement of public health nuisances. G.S. 160A-193.
Section 8-4002 Cutting weeds, grass, other vegetation.
   Every person owning or occupying any lot shall cut or cause to be cut and
removed all weeds, grass or other rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as
often as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of the preceding
section, provided, that cutting and removing such weeds, grass and vegetation
shall be done at least twice annually, with the first cutting to be done before
June 15 and the second cutting to be done before August 15 each year.
Section 8-4003 Notification of violation: removal by Town.
   (a)   If the provisions of this article are not complied with, the Town
official(s) designated by the Town Manager shall serve written notice upon the
owner, lessee or occupant or any person having the care or Control of any such
lot to comply with the provisions of this article.
   (b)   If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects or
refuses to cut and remove or to cause to be cut and removed such weeds, grass
or other vegetation within 14 calendar days after receiving such notice or if
the owner or his or her representative can not be found in the Town, the
official as designated by the Town Manager shall cause such weeds, grass and
other vegetation to be cut and removed.
(Amended by Ord. of 5/24/05)
Section 8-4004 Assessment of cost of removal.
   The actual cost of the cutting and removing such weeds, grass or other
vegetation by the Town, plus five percent (5%) for inspection and additional
costs in connection therewith, shall be certified by the official as designated
by the Town Manager to be a lien upon the property upon which such weeds, grass
and other vegetation were located. Such cost shall be added to the taxes next
to be assessed and levied upon such lot, shall bear interest at the same rate
as taxes and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer and in the
same manner as taxes.
(Amended by Ord. of 5/24/05)
Section 8-4005 Refusal or failure to comply with article: obstructing Town
officials.
   No person shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass or other vegetation
as directed in this article, shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
provisions of any notice herein provided, or shall resist or obstruct the
official as designated by the Town Manager in the cutting and removal of weeds,
grass or other vegetation.
(Amended by Ord. of 5/24/05)
Section 8-4006 Grass cuttings on public streets.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or homeowner to blow, scatter or place
grass cuttings on any public street in the Town without cleaning up said grass
cuttings.
(Ord. of 10/22/96)
CHAPTER 5
General Health Regulations
Section
8-5001   Unlawful to violate County health regulations.
Section
8-5002   Unlawful to interfere with health officer.
Section
8-5003   Right of entry.
Section
8-5004   Businesses kept in sanitary condition.
Section 8-5001 Unlawful to violate County health regulations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to violate any
lawfully adopted rule or regulation of the County Board of Health. The
enforcement of this section shall be under the supervision of the County health
officer.
Section 8-5002 Unlawful to interfere with health officer.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the health
officer or any of his assistants in the lawful discharge of their duties.
Section 8-5003 Right of entry.
   The County health officer or any of his assistants shall have the right to
enter any premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making their
inspections or investigations.
Section 8-5004 Businesses kept in sanitary condition.
   All persons doing business in the town shall keep their premises in a
sanitary condition. Garbage, including fish boxes, decayed meats, fruits,
vegetables or any other thing which attracts flies or creates offensive odors,
shall be burned or removed.
CHAPTER 6
Other General Nuisances
Section
8-6001   Abandoned iceboxes, refrigerators, etc.
Section
8-6002   General restrictions on posting and distribution of advertising
matter.
Section
8-6003   Offensive advertisements.
Section
8-6004   Begging or peddling in streets or public buildings.
Section
8-6005   Billposters and sign painters; permit required.
Section
8-6006   Circuses, carnivals and similar shows prohibited; exception.
Section
8-6007   Discharge of firearms, air guns, arrows, etc.
Section
8-6008   Entering theatres, parks, etc., without ticket or pass.
Section
8-6009   Noise.
Section
8-6010   Profanity in public places.
Section
8-6011   Public meetings; permits required in certain instances.
Section
8-6012   Spitting on sidewalks or public buildings.
Section
8-6013   Theatres; hours of operation.
Section
8-6014   Trespass on watershed, reservoirs, filtering plants, etc.
Section
8-6015   Accumulation of weeds and refuse.
Section
8-6016   Obstructing water flow.
Section
8-6017   Political signs: deposit; removal.
Section
8-6018   Skateboarding prohibited.
Section
8-6019   Noise.
Section
8-6020   Living in tents, RVs, boats, storage buildings and the like
prohibited.
Section 8-6001 Abandoned iceboxes, refrigerators, etc.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any abandoned
or unused icebox, refrigerator, safe, box, bin or any other receptacle, or any
other dangerous or hazardous article which might cause injuries to persons, to
remain on his premises or to be placed on his premises, without first having
removed all locks, latches, catches or fasteners from the doors, so that the
doors will not close and fasten.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, put, or cause to be
placed or put, any of the articles and receptacles mentioned in this section,
whether the locks, latches, etc. have been removed or not, upon the lands or
premises of any other person or along or upon the sidewalks, streets or alleys
of the Town.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-1)
Section 8-6002 General restrictions on posting and distribution of advertising
matter.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach, place, paint, write,
stamp or paste, or cause to be attached, placed, painted, written, stamped or
pasted any sign, advertisement or other matter upon any lamp post, electric
light, railway, telephone or telegraph pole, shade tree, fire hydrant or box
covering the same, or on any bridge, pavement, sidewalk or crosswalk, public
building or any other property or thing belonging to the Town, or on any
article or thing within any park. It shall also be unlawful for any person to
attach, place, paint, write, stamp or pasts or cane to be attached, placed,
painted, written, stamped or pasted any sign, advertisement or other matter
upon any house or part thereof; wall, fence, gate, post or tree without first
having obtained written permission from the owner, agent or occupant of the
premises so to do.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, throw, drop or
scatter, or cause to be distributed, dropped or scattered in any street or
public place in the Town any poster, handbill, advertising card or other
substance used for the purpose of advertising. No person shall distribute
handbills or other advertising matter at houses, stores or other places of
business, other than by putting the same inside the screen doors, under doors,
in the jamb of doors or in letter boxes connected with such houses, stores or
places of business and, when so distributed, no bell connected with such
houses, stores or places of business shall be rung and no alarm of any kind
shall be sounded.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-2)
Section 8-6003 Offensive advertisements.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or display or cause to be posted
or displayed so that the same can be seen from any street or public place, or
to distribute or cause to be distributed, any immoral, offensive, improper,
indecent, lascivious or obscene advertisement or notice, or any delineation,
cut or figure or printed or painted matter which tends to suggest anything of
an immoral, offensive, improper, indecent, lascivious or obscene nature.
(Code 1968, Sec. 12-5)
Section 8-6004 Begging or peddling in streets or public buildings.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beg or peddle on any street or
in any public building in the Town unless a permit to do so has been obtained
from the dark.
   (b)   This section is not applicable to persons soliciting for any religious
or charitable organization and properly licensed by the State Charitable
solicitations Commission.
State Law Reference: Authority to regulate begging, G.S. 160A-179.
Section 8-6005 Billposters and sign painters; permit required.
   No person, by himself or by his clerk, agent or employee, shall conduct,
operate, manage or carry on the business or occupation of biLlposting or sign
painting in the Town without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Board,
which permit shall be in addition to the occupation license required by such
person.
(Code 1968, Sec. 12-7)
Section 8-6006 Circuses, carnivals and similar shows prohibited; exception.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any circus, carnival, or
similar show in the Town, except those sponsored by a nonprofit organization
and, in that case, only upon written approval of the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-8)
State Law References: Authority of Town to regulate and prohibit carnivals,
circuses, etc., G.S. 160A-181.
Section 8-6007 Discharge of firearms, air guns, arrows, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or shoot a gun or pistol of any
kind, air gun, bow shooting an arrow, or any device shooting or propelling a
bullet, shot, arrow, or any missile which is likely to cause injury or damage
to persons or property within the corporate limits of the Town. This section
shall not apply to any law officer in the discharge of his duty or to any
person in the defense of his home or person or to any act done in order to
prevent the commission of a felony.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-10)
Cross Reference: Prohibition against shooting birds, section
8-2008.
State Law Reference: Authority to regulate firearms, G.S. 160A-189.
Section 8-6008 Entering theatres, parks, etc., without ticket or pass.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter into any theatre, park, pounds
or structure where admission charges are required for such entrance without
first having obtained a proper ticket or pass for admission.
(Code 1968, Sec. 12-11)
State Law Reference: Regulation of places of amusement, G.S. 160A-181.
Section 8-6009 Noise.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels in the Town,
taking into consideration volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics
of the sound.
   (b)   The following activities, among others, are hereby declared to be
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels, but said enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
   (1)   The playing of any musical instrument or electronic sound
amplification equipment in such manner or with such volume, particularly during
hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., such that a reasonably prudent person
would recognize as likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity.
   (2)   The keeping of any animal or bird which makes frequent or long
continued sounds, such that a reasonably prudent person would recognize as
likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity.
   (3)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so
loaded, or in such manner as to create unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds.
   (4)   The operating of any garage or service station in any residential area
so as to cause unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds to be emitted between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
   (5)   The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels adjacent to
any school, educational entity, church or court during normal operating hours,
or within 150 feet of any hospital, which a reasonably prudent person would.
cognize as likely to unreasonably interfere with the working of such
institutions, provided conspicuous signs are displayed indicating that such
area is a school, educational facility, church, court or hospital area.
   (6)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any day, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only -under the -
direction of an appropriate Town official.
   (7)   The use of any electronic sound amplification equipment for
advertising or solicitation purposes, except with an appropriate permit.
   (c)   Persons wishing to engage in activities regulated by this section may
do so when a specific permit is approved by the manager or his designee.
Applications shall be submitted on forms supplied by the Town. The permit shall
not be unreasonably withheld, and may contain appropriate conditions, including
maximum decibel levels, designed to minimize the disruptive impact. Permits for
such activities significantly for religious or political purposes shall be
granted, subject only to reasonable time, place and manner restrictions.
Permits issued under this division may specify that the permission granted will
continue for a stated period or until revoked after actual notice. Persons
shall not be held in violation of this section when acting in conformity with
permit conditions, but any permit ay be revoked if it is determined that the
authorized activity has resulted in generation of unreasonably loud, disturbing
sound levels.
   (d)   In cue an application is denied, a permit is approved with conditions
unacceptable to the applicant, or a permit is revoked, the applicant or permit
holder shall be entitled to a prompt, informal hearing with the manager or his
designee, upon submission of a written request. Any person aggrieved by a
matter regulated by this section may submit to the manager written comments,
including requests for appropriate relief.
   (e)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be punished
by a fine not to exceed $50 or imprisoned not to exceed 30 days. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 2/25/92)
   Cross Reference: Use of vehicle horns in quiet zones, section
7-1099; noise, section
8-6019; creation of noise by unnecessary spinning of vehicle tires, section
7-1102.
   State Law Reference: Authority of Town to control, regulate and prohibit
noise, G.S. 160A-184.
Section 8-6010 Profanity in public places.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in boisterous cursing and
swearing or to use vulgar and offensive language in any public place.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-14)
Section 8-6011 Public meetings; permits required in certain instances.
   (a)   No public meeting which the general public is invited to attend shall
be held in any building in the Town not usually used for public gatherings or
meetings, unless the sponsor of the same shall first obtain a permit therefor
from the Board. Application for such permit shall be made in writing and shall
state the purpose of the meeting and the location where it is to be held.
   (b)   No tent or other temporary quarters for any such meeting shall be
erected without first obtaining a permit for the same from the Board.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-15)
Section 8-6012 Spitting on sidewalks or public buildings.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit on the sidewalks of the Town or
upon the steps, floors, walls or any part of any public building.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-16)
Section 8-6013 Theatres; hours of operation.
   (a)   No theatre or moving picture show shall operate in any manner prior to
the hour of 10:00 a.m. on any week day and shall close by midnight of each day.
   (b)   No theatre or moving picture show shall operate in any manner on
Sunday, except between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. and between 8:30
p.m. and midnight.
(Code 1963, Sec. 12-17)
   State Law Reference: Regulation of places of amusement, G.S. 160A-181.
Section 8-6014 Trespass on watershed, reservoirs, filtering plants, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except such as may have a written
permit from the Town Manager, to go upon the watershed owned by the Town in
Beaverdam Township, or upon the premises occupied by any of the Town's
reservoirs, filtering plants, or pump stations, or upon other properties owned
or leased by the Town where no trespassing signs are erected.
Section 8-6015 Accumulation of weeds and refuse.
   (a)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any business or
commercial vacant lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby
declared to be dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to
constitute a public nuisance:
      (1)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of nine inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety.
      (2)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening
to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes, or vermin of any kind which may be dangerous or prejudicial
to the public health.
      (3)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
      (4)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove,
glass, building material, building rubbish, or similar items.
      (5)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
      (6)   Any condition which violates state or federal health or
environmental rules and regulations.
   (b)   Any person, firm, or corporation, that permits any of the conditions
set out in division (a) herein, after first being given 14 calendar days’
notice to eliminate that condition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished as provided in G.S. 14-4.
   (c)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any residential
vacant lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to
be dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance:
   (1)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of nine inches, causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety.
   (2)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes, or vermin of any kind which may be dangerous or prejudicial
to the public health.
   (3)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
   (4)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish, or similar items.
   (5)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
   (6)   Any condition which violates state or federal health or environmental
rules and regulations.
   (d)   Any person, firm, or corporation that permits any of the conditions
set out in division (c) herein, after first being given 14 calendar days’
notice to eliminate that condition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished as provided in G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. of 3/9/82; amended by Ord. of 4/8/86; amended by Ord. of 5/24/05)
Section 8-6016 Obstructing water flow.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner the
water flow of any stream or tributary in the corporate limits of the Town.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place a drain tile or pipe in
any stream or tributary in the corporate limits of the Town without first
obtaining the approval of the Town Building Inspector.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to divert from its natural course
any stream or tributary in the corporate limits of the Town. Any person
permitting a tree, trees, or vegetation to grow on their property in or so
close to any stream or tributary so as to divert the stream or tributary from
its natural course shall be in violation of this section.
   (d)   When there is construction in the Town, the Building Inspector may
require holding dams.
(Ord. of 9/22/81)
Section 8-6017 Political signs: deposit; removal.
   (a)   No political signs shall be permitted in the corporate limits of the
Town unless a candidate for a political office first deposits $50 with the Town
Clerk. Seven days after the election, the $50 will be refunded to the candidate
if all of his political signs have been removed. If the signs have not been
removed, the $50 deposit will be forfeited to the Town. Candidates who have
made a deposit and are nominated in a primary election may keep their signs up
until seven days after the general election.
   (b)   Any political signs of candidates who have not complied with this
section shall be removed.
(Ord. of 4/22/86, Sec. 1)
Section 8-6018 Skateboarding prohibited.
   (a)   Skateboarding is prohibited on all municipally owned property except
any areas specifically designated for skateboard use.
   (b)   Skateboards used in violation of this section shall be confiscated by
the Canton Police Department and held in evidence until the case is adjudicated
or released.
(Ord. of 7/13/10)
Section 8-6019 Noise.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels in the Town,
taking into consideration volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics
of the sound.
   (b)   The following activities, among others, are hereby declared to be
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels, but said enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
   (1)   The playing of any musical instrument or electronic sound
amplification equipment in such manner or with such volume, particularly during
hours between 11:00 pm. and 7:00 a.m., such that a reasonably prudent person
would recognize as likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity.
   (2)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so
loaded, or in such manner as to create unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds.
   (3)   The operating of any garage or service station in any residential area
so as to cause unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds to be emitted between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
   (4)   The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels adjacent to
any school, educational facility, church or court during normal operating
hours, or within 150 feet of any hospital, which a reasonably prudent person
would recognize as likely to unreasonably interfere with the working of such
institutions, provided conspicuous signs are displayed indicating that such
area is a school, educational facility, church, court or hospital area.
   (5)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any day, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only under the direction
of an appropriate Town official.
   (6)   The use of any electronic sound amplification equipment for
advertising or solicitation purposes, except with an appropriate permit.
   (c)   Persons wishing to engage in activities regulated by this section may
do so when a specific permit is approved by the Manager or his/her designee.
Applications shall be submitted on forms supplied by the Town. The permit shall
not be unreasonably withheld, and may contain appropriate conditions, including
maximum decibel levels, designed to minimize the disruptive impact. Permits for
such activities significantly for religious or political purposes shall be
granted, subject only to reasonable time, place and manner restrictions.
Permits issued under this division may specify that the permission granted will
continue for a stated period or until revoked after actual notice. Persons
shall not be held in violation of this section when acting in conformity with
permit conditions, but any permit may be revoked if it is determined that the
authorized activity has resulted in generation of unreasonably loud, disturbing
sound levels.
   (d)   In case an application is denied, a permit is approved with conditions
unacceptable to the applicant, or a permit is revoked, the applicant or permit
holder shall be entitled to a prompt, informal hearing with the Manager or his/
her designee, upon submission of a written request. Any person aggrieved by a
matter regulated by this section may submit to the Manager written comments,
including requests for appropriate relief.
   (e)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be punished
by a fine not to exceed $50 or imprisoned not to exceed 30 days. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 2/25/92; amended by Ord. of 5/14/15, sec. 2)
   Cross Reference: Noise, section
8-6009.
Section 8-6020   Living in tents, RVs, boats, storage buildings and the like
prohibited.
   Use of a lot for temporary or permanent residential living quarters unless a
permanent dwelling unit has been lawfully erected on the lot, pursuant to the
provisions of this section and applicable building and safety codes is
prohibited. Indications that a property is being used as temporary or permanent
residential living quarters include actions such as spending significant time
at the location on more than one day, repeated eating and sleeping at the
location, and performing other life activities at the location repeatedly.
   Tents, boats, RVs, campers, storage buildings, and other structures shall
not be occupied either on a permanent or temporary basis on a residential lot,
except that tents may be occupied for no more than three (3) days in any two-
month period when erected in the rear yard of a permanent dwelling unit.
(Ord. of 3/28/24)
CHAPTER 7
Obscene Publications and Exhibitions
Section
8-7001   Purpose and effect.
Section
8-7002   Definitions.
Section
8-7003   Lewd films and theaters exhibiting the same, and monies received as
admission price declared public nuisances; abatement thereof.
Section
8-7004   Obscene publications and places of business selling the same, and
monies received as purchase price declared a public nuisance; abatement
thereof.
Section
8-7005   Action to be taken by Board of Aldermen.
Section
8-7006   Action brought pursuant to this article; forfeiture to the general
fund of the Town; cost of abatement; manner of collection.
Section
8-7007   Action to be taken by Town attorney.
Section
8-7008   Severability clause.
Section 8-7001 Purpose and effect.
   The Board of Aldermen find that the crass commercial exploitation of
explicit sexual conduct through the public exhibition of lewd films and the
sale of obscene publications constitutes a debasement and distortion of a
sensitive key relationship of human existence, central to family life,
community welfare, and the development of human personality; is indecent and
offensive to the senses and public morals and interferes with the comfortable
enjoyment of life and property, in that such interferes with the interest of
the public in the quality of life and total community environment, the tone of
commerce in the Town, property value and the public safety and morals; and that
the continued operation of such activities is detrimental to the best health,
safety, convenience, good morals, and general welfare of the Town, and of the
residents, citizens, inhabitants, and business thereof. Therefore, pursuant to
Article II, Sec. 24 of the North Carolina Constitution; and Section 153A-3,
153A4, 153A45, 153A-121, 153A-122, 153A-123, 153A-124, 153A-134 and 153A-135 of
the General Statutes of North Carolina, the Board of Aldermen declare such
activities to be a public nuisance, and herein establishes procedures for the
abatement thereof. This article shall apply to existing establishments which
are presently engaged in the type of activity herein declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. of 6/24/75, Sec. 1)
Section 8-7002 Definitions.
   (a)   The terms "lewd film" and "obscene publication" mean respectively any
motion picture film or any publication:
   (1)   which the average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find, when considered as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest; and
   (2)   which depicts or describes patently offensive sexual conduct by
representations or descriptions of:
   a.   ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated: or
   b.   masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd exhibition of the genitals
or genital area.
   Nothing herein contained is intended to include or proscribe any film or any
publication which, when considered as a whole, and in the context in which it
is used, possesses serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   (b)   "Place" includes, but is not limited to, any building, structure, or
place, or any separate part or portion thereof, whether permanent or not, or
the ground itself.
   (c)   "Motion picture film" shall include any:
   (1)   film or plate negative;
   (2)   film or plate positive:
   (3)   film designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition:
   (4)   films, glass slides, or transparencies, either in negative or positive
form, designed for exhibition by projection on a screen.
   (d)   "Person" means any individual, partnership, firm, association,
corporation, or other legal entity.
   (e)   "Knowledge" means having knowledge of the contents, nature and
character of the patently offensive sexual conduct which appears in such lewd
film or publication.
   (f)   "Public exhibition" means the showing of a motion picture film, as
defined herein, to any member of the public whether for consideration paid or
not, or the providing of the same for viewing by any member of the public,
whether for consideration paid or not.
   (g)   "Publication" means and includes any book, magazine, pamphlet,
writing, printing, illustration, picture, sound recording, or a motion picture
film which is offered for sale or exhibited in a coin operated machine.
   (h)   "Sale" means and includes, but is not limited to, any ordinary sale,
or any lease or rental arrangement or other transaction wherein or whereby any
valuable consideration is received for the use of, or transfer of possession of
a lewd film or obscene publication.
(Ord. of 6/24/75, Sec. 2)
Section 8-7003 Lewd films and theaters exhibiting the same, and monies received
as admission price declared public nuisances; abatement thereof.
   (a)   Any and every place in the Town, where lewd films are publicly
exhibited as a regular course of business or possessed for the purpose of such
exhibition, is a public nuisance.
   (b)   Any and every place in the Town where a lewd film is publicly and
repeatedly exhibited, or possessed for the purpose of such exhibition is a
public nuisance.
   (c)   Any and every lewd film which is publicly exhibited or possessed for
such purpose in the Town is a public nuisance per se.
   (d)   From and after service on the theater, or its manager, or acting
manager, or person then in charge of such place, of a certified copy of this
article and a certified copy of the Resolution and order of summary abatement
provided for in section
8-7005 here of, or a certified copy of a Court order of abatement, all monies
thereafter paid as admission price for such exhibitions are also declared to be
a public nuisance, as personal property used in conducting and maintaining a
declared public nuisance.
   (e)   Upon receiving notice through service of a certified copy of this
article and certified copy of the resolution and order of summary abatement
provided for in section
8-7005 here of, or a certified copy of a court order of abatement, and every
person who shall own, legally or equitably, lease, maintain, manage, conduct or
operate a place in the Town which is declared to be a public nuisance as set
forth and stated in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, is deemed to be a
person who has knowledge of such nuisance for the purpose of this article, and
is, thereafter responsible for its maintenance, and shall be liable therefor.
   (f)   The places and subject matter declared to be public nuisances under
subsections (a) through (d) of this section shall be abated pursuant to Article
II, Sec. 24 of the North Carolina Constitution and Sections 153A-3, 153A-4,
153A-5, 153A-121, 153A-122, 153A-123, 153A-124, 153A-134 and 153A-135 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, as provided for herein.
(Ord. of 6/24/75, Sec. 3)
Section 8-7004 Obscene publications and places of business selling the same,
and monies received as purchase price declared a public nuisance; abatement
thereof.
   (a)   Any and every place in the Town in which obscene publications
constitute the principal part of the stock in trade is a public nuisance.
   (b)   Any and every obscene publication possessed in such place of business
is a public nuisance per se.
   (c)   From and after service on the place of business, or its manager, or
acting manager, or person then in charge of such place, of a certified copy of
this article and a certified copy of the resolution and order of summary
abatement provided for in section
8-7005 hereof, or a certified copy of a court order of abatement all monies
thereafter paid as purchase price for such obscene publication sales are also
declared to be a public nuisance, as personal property used in conducting and
maintaining a declared public nuisance.
   (d)   Upon receiving notice through service of a certified copy of this
article and a certified copy of the resolution and order of summary abatement
provided for in section
8-7005 here of, or a certified copy of a court order of abatement, any and
every person who shall own, legally or equitably, lease, maintain, manage,
conduct or operate a place in the Town which is declared to be a public
nuisance as set forth and stated in subsection (a) and (b) of this section, is
deemed to be a person who has knowledge of such nuisance for the purpose of
this article and is, thereafter, responsible for its maintenance, and shall be
liable there for.
   (e)   The places and subject matter declared to be public nuisances under
subsections (a) through (d) of this section shall be abated pursuant to Article
II, Sec. 24 of the North Carolina Constitution and Sections 153A-3, 153AA,
153A-5, 153A-12I, 153A-122, 153A-123, 153A-124, 153A-134 and 153A-135 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, as provided for herein.
(Ord. of 6/24/75, Sec. 4)
Section 8-7005 Action to be taken by Board of Aldermen.
   (a)   Upon a specific finding that a public nuisance, as defined in either
section
8-7003 and/or section
8-7004 of this article, exists in the Town of Canton, the Board of Aldermen, in
applying the provisions of this article to such nuisance, shall provide for the
following by resolution:
   (l)   Declare the fact that such nuisance exists.
   (2)   Set forth the legal description and street address of the real
property which constitutes the nuisance.
   (3)   Set forth the evidentiary facts considered by the Board in arriving at
its factual determination that lewd film or films or obscene publications
publicly exhibited or sold, or possessed for exhibition or sale, at such real
property and are public nuisances, including a recitation of the particular
sexual conduct and acts depicted which the Board finds are patently offensive.
   (4)   Order all persons named in section
8-7003 (e) and/or section
8-7004 (e) of this article to summarily abate such public nuisances
immediately, by terminating the exhibition or sales of such lewd film or films
or obscene publications or causing the same to be terminated and voluntarily
surrendering possession of the same to the court having jurisdiction of the
legal proceeding brought pursuant to this article and notifying the Board of
compliance therewith by sworn affidavit.
   (5)   Order the Town attorney to proceed as directed in section
8-7007 of this article and do all things necessary to abate such public
nuisance through judicial proceeding and to conclude such proceedings as
expeditiously as is permissible under the law, including the request to advance
such proceedings on the calendar of the court.
   (6)   Inform and give notice to persons named in section
8-7003 (e) and/or section
8-7004 (e) that:
   a.   the Board of Aldermen has determined that a public nuisance presently
exists at such address and that, under section
8-7003(e) and/or section
8-7004(e) of said article, they are deemed to have knowledge thereof and are
responsible therefor.
   b.   the Board of Aldermen has ordered the Town attorney to commence legal
proceedings naming such persons as defendants in a civil action to abate the
same judicially and that under sections
8-7006 (a) and (b) of this article, the costs of abatement of such civil
abatement action filed under the above statutes, including investigative costs,
court costs, attorney's fees, and other expenses, are made a special assessment
against the parcel of land upon which such nuisance is being maintained, and
upon their determination in such court action will, by separate ordinance, be
made a lien against such property and a personal obligation against the
property owner and the theater or business operator.
   c.   all films and/or publications being used in conducting and maintaining
such public nuisance are contraband and the subject of forfeiture, and
   d.   from and after service on the theater or place of business or its
manager or acting manager or person then in charge of such place of a certified
copy of this article and a certified copy of such resolution, any and all
monies paid as admission price to such exhibitions or paid as purchase price
for such sales are a public nuisance, as personal property used in conducting
and maintaining such nuisance, and as such, are the subject of forfeiture.
   (7)   Order that a certified copy of said resolution and a certified copy of
this article be delivered in any manner normally used to effectuate personal
service of process as directed in North Carolina General Statutes and Rules of
Civil Procedure adopted thereunder, to all persons of record having any legal
or equitable interest in the real property, and to the regular or acting
manager or persons in charge of the place therein declared a public nuisance.
   (b)   In addition to the procedure provided in subsection (a) of this
section, an abatement proceeding may be commenced in the General Court of
Justice by any citizen of the Town of Canton in the name of the Town of Canton
upon relation of such citizen, to abate the nuisance declared in this article
in the same manner as provided in Chapter 19, Article l, of the General
Statutes of North Carolina. In an abatement proceeding as provided herein, such
citizen may seek the relief set forth in section
8-7007 of this article, in addition to any other equitable relief deemed proper
by the court hearing the matter.
(Ord. of 6/24/75, Sec. 5)
Section 8-7006 Action brought pursuant to this article; forfeiture to the
general fund of the Town; cost of abatement; manner of collection.
   (a)   Upon judgment against the owners or operators of the theater or place
of business in legal proceedings brought pursuant to this article and
applicable North Carolina General Statutes, an accounting shall be made by such
defendants of all monies received by them which have been declared to be a
public nuisance under section
8-7003 (d) and/or section
8-7004 (d) of this article. Such monies or their equivalent shall be forfeited
to the General Fund of the Town.
   (b)   The cost of abatement shall include the following:
   (1)   Investigative costs.
   (2)   Court costs.
   (3)   Reasonable attorney's fees arising out of preparation for, and trial
of, the cause and appeals therefrom.
   (4)   Printing costs of trial and appellate briefs, and all other papers
filed in such proceedings.
   (c)   Such costs of abatement is hereby made a special assessment against
the parcel of land upon which such nuisance is maintained. Upon its
determination in a civil action, such costs of abatement shall, by special
ordinance, be made a lien against such property and a personal obligation
against the property owner and the theater or business operator and shall be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary Town taxes are
collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure
and sale in the case of delinquency as provided for ordinary Town taxes. All
laws, applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of municipal taxes
shall be applicable to such special assessment.
(Ord. of 6/24/75, Sec. 6)
Section 8-7007 Action to be taken by Town attorney.
   Upon a specific finding by resolution of the Board of Aldermen of the fact
that a public nuisance, as defined herein, exists at a particular location, the
Town attorney shall:
   (a)   Immediately institute legal proceeding under this article and Chapter
19, Article 1, of the General Statutes of North Carolina, seeking the following
relief:
   (1)   A declaratory judgment that the motion picture or pictures or
publications named by the Board are lewd films or obscene publications.
   (2)   A declaratory judgment that the films or publications found to be lewd
or obscene are public nuisances under this article and such resolution.
   (3)   A declaratory judgment that the place named by the Board where the
film or films or publications are being exhibited or sold are a public nuisance
under this article and such resolution.
   (4)   An accounting of all monies paid as admission or purchase price to the
operators of the theater or business from and after the time the persons
maintaining said nuisance receive notice of the finding by the Board that the
public nuisance exists, and declaratory judgment that such monies are a public
nuisance under this article.
   (5)   An order that all admission price monies derived from the showing of
the named lewd film or films and all purchase price monies derived from the
sale of the named obscene publications and enumerated in the court-ordered
accounting to be forfeited to the general fund of the Town as contraband.
   (6)   An injunction enjoining and restraining all persons guilty of
maintaining said nuisance from exhibiting in public the named lewd films or
selling the named obscene publications at any time in the future in the Town.
   (7)   An order that all positive prints of the named lewd films and all
copies of the named obscene publications be forfeited as contraband under this
article.
   (8)   An order directing the removal from the building or place of all
fixtures, furniture, films, projection equipment, screens, publications, and
movable property used in conducting the nuisance, and directing the sale
thereof in the manner provided for the sale of chattels under execution, and
directing the effectual closing of the building or place against its use for
any purpose for a period of one year, unless sooner released as provided for in
North Carolina General Statutes 19-5, 19-6 and 19-7.
   (9)   Judgment for the Town of Canton for all costs therein expended,
including investigative costs, court costs, reasonable attorney's fees, costs
for moving and selling movable property, and such other expenses as are
provided for herein.
   (10)   (a)   All other relief as the Court may deem proper.
      (b)   File a notice of the pendency of the action in the Office of the
Register of Deeds of the County of Haywood pursuant to North Carolina Statutes
on Civil Procedure, giving the names of the parties, the object of the action,
and a description of the property thereby affected.
(Ord. of 6/24/75 Sec. 6)
Section 8-7008 Severability clause.
   If any Court shall determine that any work, clause, phrase, sentence,
paragraph or subsection of this article is unconstitutional as worded, the
Court shall first attempt to construe or interpret such unconstitutional
provision so as to enable same to be constitutional as so narrowed or
construed. If the Court cannot so limit or construe such word or provision
narrowly so as to render same constitutional, it shall strike or modify only
the minimum number of words, phrases, clauses, sentences, or paragraphs as will
be absolutely necessary to render the remainder constitutional. In no case
shall a subordinate word, clause or phrase render its attached major section or
provision unconstitutional, but instead shall be severed therefrom entirely,
unless such severance renders the remainder wholly meaningless or
unconstitutional.
(Ord. of 6/24/75, Sec. 7)
CHAPTER 8
Sexually Oriented Businesses
Section
8-8001   Purpose.
Section
8-8002   Definitions.
Section
8-8003   Application for Licenses.
Section
8-8004   Application Procedures.
Section
8-8005   Prohibited Acts and Conduct.
Section
8-8006   License; Posting and Display.
Section
8-8007   Inspections.
Section
8-8008   Suspension of Revocation of Licenses.
Section
8-8009   License Renewal.
Section
8-8010   Transfer of License.
Section
8-8011   Locational Restrictions.
Section
8-8012   Non-Conforming Uses.
Section
8-8013   Additional Regulations for Adult Motels.
Section
8-8014   Additional Regulations for Escort Agencies.
Section
8-8015   Additional Regulations for Nude Model Studios.
Section
8-8016   Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit Films,
Videos, and Live Performances.
Section
8-8017   Exterior Portions of Sexually Oriented Businesses.
Section
8-8018   Signage.
Section
8-8019   Massages or Baths Administered by a Person of the Opposite Sex.
Section
8-8020   Hours of Operation.
Section
8-8021   Exemptions.
Section
8-8022   Notices.
Section
8-8023   Injunction.
Section
8-8024   Severability.
Section 8-8001 Purpose.
   (a)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirements for adult establishments located within the Town of
Canton. Adult establishments, because of their very nature, are recognized as
having serious objectionable operational characteristics. Studies and
experiences that are relevant to North Carolina have shown that lower property
values and increased crime rates tend to accompany and are brought about by
adult establishments. The Board of Aldermen finds that regulation of these uses
is necessary to ensure that these adverse secondary effects do not contribute
to the blighting of surrounding neighborhoods and to regulate acts, omissions
or conditions detrimental to the health, safety or welfare and the peace and
dignity of the town. Regulation to achieve these purposes can be accomplished
by the procedures set forth hereinafter.
   (b)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually-oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8002 Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   (1)   Adult bookstore. A bookstore:
   (a)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section, or other periodicals, videotapes, compact
discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital, or other imaging
medium);
   (b)   Having as a preponderance (either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications, including books, greeting cards, magazines, other periodicals,
videotapes, compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital,
or other imaging medium, which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   (2)   Adult Cabaret. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment that on a regular, sporadic, or transient basis features:
   (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
   (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities";
   (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   (d)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are intended
for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   (3)   Adult establishment. An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel,
adult motion picture theater, adult mini motion picture theater, escort agency,
exotic car wash, exotic maid service, nude modeling studio, sexual encounter
center or any other sexually oriented business that is similar in nature or
intent to any other adult entertainment business as defined in this section.
   (4)   Adult live entertainment. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   (5)   Adult live entertainment business. Any establishment or business
wherein adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons. This
shall apply whether the entertainment is presented on a regular, sporadic, or
transient basis.
   (6)   Adult motel. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
   (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right
of way that advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
   (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
24 hours; or
   (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   (7)   Adult motion picture theater. An enclosed building or premises used
for presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. "Adult motion picture theater"
does not include any adult mini motion picture theater as defined in this
section.
   (8)   Adult mini motion picture theater. An enclosed building with viewing
booths designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   (9)   Employee. A person who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis, or
independent basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee,
independent contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the said person
is paid a salary, wage, or other compensation by the operator of said business.
"Employee" does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery
of goods to the premises, nor does "employee" include a person exclusively on
the premises as a patron or customer.
   (10)   Enlargement of a sexually oriented business. The increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than 10%, as the floor areas exist on
June 22, 1999.
   (11)   Escort. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person and whose advertisements, promotions, or obvious intent to the public is
sexual in nature.
   (12)   Escort agency. A person or business association who furnishes, offers
to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration and whose advertisements,
promotions, or obvious intent to the public is sexual in nature.
   (13)   Entertainer. Any person who provides entertainment within or at an
adult establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for
entertainment and whether or not entertainment is provided by that person as an
employee or an independent contractor.
   (14)   Erotic. Any seductive, titillating, lustful, immodest, indecent,
suggestive, passionate, or similar reference, act, service or deed.
   (15)   Establishment. Any of the following:
   (a)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   (c)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   (d)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   (16)   Exotic car wash. A facility that offers a car cleaning or washing
service performed by employees that are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (17)   Exotic maid service. Any cleaning service for a residence or business
where the employee is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (18)   Licensed day-care center. A facility licensed by the state of North
Carolina, whether situated within the town or not, that provides care,
training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than 12
children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24
hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a profit
or charges for the services it offers.
   (19)   Licensee. A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well
as the individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   (20)   Nude model studio. Any place where a person appears in a state of
nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons for consideration.
   (21)   Nudity or a state of nudity. The appearance of a human bare buttock,
anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals, or
vulva, with less than fully opaque covering; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   (22)   Person. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   (23)   Premises. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business
is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to Section
8-8004 of this chapter.
   (24)   Semi-nude. The appearance of the female breast below a horizontal
line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   (25)    Sexual encounter center. A business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration:
   (a)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   (b)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   (26)   Sexually oriented devices. Without limitation, any artificial or
simulated specified anatomical area or their device or paraphernalia that is
designed principally for specified sexual activities but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   (27)   Specified anatomical areas.
   (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      1.   Human genitals, pubic region;
      2.   Buttock;
      3.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola;
or
   (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   (28)   Specified sexual activities.
   (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, or
   (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   (29)   Sexually oriented business. Any businesses or enterprises that have
as one of their principal business purposes or as a significant portion of
their business an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing, or
related to anatomical areas and sexual activities as specified in N.C.G.S. 14-
202.10. This term may be used interchangeably with adult establishment.
   (30)   Transfer of ownership or control of a sexually oriented business. Any
of the following:
   (a)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   (b)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device that
transfers the ownership of control of the business, except for the transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
   (31)   Town. Town of Canton, North Carolina.
   (32)   Town Clerk. As used in this ordinance, chief administrative Town
Official. The Town Clerk is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8003 Application for licenses.
   (a)   Business license.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the town unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the town. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate such business after such license has been revoked or
suspended by the town or has expired.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service or entertainment directly related to the operation of an
unlicensed adult establishment within the town.
   (3)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the manner required by this chapter, an adult
establishment license, has not obtained such a license. In addition, it shall
be prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in an adult establishment in which an adult establishment license
is not posted, in the manner required by this chapter, had knowledge that such
business was not licensed.
   (b)   Entertainer license. It is unlawful for any person to work as an
entertainer at an adult establishment without first obtaining a license to do
so from the town, or to work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after
such person's license to do so has been revoked or suspended by the town or has
expired.
   (c)   License classification and fees.
   (1)   The term of all licenses required under this chapter shall be for a
period of 12 months, commencing on the date of issuance of the license. The
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the fees
referred to in this chapter and established by the Board of Aldermen. Payment
shall be made by certified or cashier's check or money order. No application
shall be considered complete until all such fees are paid.
   (2)   All license shall be issued for a specific location and/or person and
shall be nonrefundable and nontransferable.
   (3)   The license fees shall be as set by the Board of Aldermen from time to
time and be recorded in the Town Board of Aldermen Meeting Minutes at which
they are set.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8004 Application procedures.
   (a)   Adult establishment business license. All persons desiring to secure a
license to conduct, operate or maintain an adult establishment under the
provisions of this chapter shall make a verified application to the Town Clerk.
All applications shall be submitted in the name of the person proposing to
conduct, operate or maintain the adult establishment. All applications shall be
submitted on a form supplied by the Town Clerk and shall require the following
information:
   (1)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by which the
applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, social security number, drivers
license number, and a recent photograph of the applicants.
   (2)   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the adult
entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the owner
of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the business
address and Haywood County parcel identification number on which the business
resides.
   (3)   If the persons identified as the fee owner of the tract of land in
item (A) is not also the owner of the establishment, then the lease, purchase
contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract or other document
evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed owners of
the adult establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of the tract
or portion thereof that is to be used for the purpose of the operation of an
adult establishment;
   (4)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses
within 1,500 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, library, or public park or
recreation area within 1,500 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes
of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted.
   (5)   Any of the criteria above shall not be required for a renewal
application if the applicant states that the documents previously furnished the
Town Clerk with the original application or previous renewals thereof remain
correct and current.
   (6)   The names, residence addresses for the past two years, social security
numbers and dates of births of all partners, if the applicant is a partnership;
and if the applicant is a corporation, the same information for all corporate
officers, directors, and individuals having a 10% or greater interest in the
corporation.
   (7)   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or from each
corporate officer, director, or ten percent shareholder that each such person
has not been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or
diverted from prosecution on:
      (A)   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding the
application, or
      (B)   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately preceding
the application.
   Where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual offenses,
prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child, pornography
or related offenses as defined in the laws of North Carolina or any other
comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any other state.
   (8)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of existence
issued by the North Carolina Secretary of State.
   (9)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter regulating adult establishments.
   (10)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by the Canton Police
Department. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for
processing. Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on
file in the Canton Police Department.
   (11)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his/her background by the town to include fingerprinting and
that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his/her expense, a
criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five preceding years. Failure to provide the information
and documentation required by this subsection shall constitute an incomplete
application and it shall not be processed until complete.
   (b)   Adult entertainer license. All persons desiring to secure a license
under the provisions of this chapter to be an entertainer shall make a verified
application to the Town Clerk. All applications shall be made in person to the
Town Clerk or his designee. All applications shall be submitted on a form
supplied by the Town Clerk and shall require the following information:
   (1)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by which the
applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the home telephone number, date and
place of birth, social security number, and any stage names or nicknames used
in entertaining.
   (2)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the applicant
intends to work as an entertainer.
   (3)   A statement from the applicant that the applicant has not been
convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted from
prosecution on:
      (A) A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding the
application; or
      (B) A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately preceding the
application, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the State of North
Carolina or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the
laws of any other state.
   (4)   Photographs shall be taken of the applicant by the Canton Police
Department. The police department shall have the photographs processed and
retain the copies.
   (5)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by the Canton Police
Department. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for
processing. Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on
file in the Canton Police Department.
   (6)   The applicant shall present to the Town Clerk for copying
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 21 years at the time
the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be accepted as
documentation of age:
      (A)    A motor vehicle operator's license issued by any state, bearing
the applicant's photograph and date of birth;
      (B)    A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant's
photograph and date of birth;
      (C)    An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
      (D)    An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
      (E)    Any other form of picture identification issued by a governmental
entity that is deemed reliable by the Town Clerk; or
      (F)    Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the Town
Clerk.
   (7)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his/her background by the town to include fingerprinting and
that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his/her expense, a
criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five preceding years. Failure to provide the information
required by this subsection shall constitute an incomplete application and it
shall not be processed until complete.
   (c)   Application processing. Upon receipt of a complete application for an
adult establishment license or for an entertainer license, the Town Clerk shall
immediately commence investigation of the application as follows:
   (1)   In the case of an application for a license for an adult
establishment, the Town Clerk shall:
      (A)    Transmit a copy of the application to the Code Enforcement
Officer, the Zoning Board of Adjustment and to the Canton Police Department.
      (B)    The Town Clerk, no later than 15 working days after the receipt of
the application, shall determine whether or not a proposed adult establishment
complies with the requirements of the zoning ordinance regarding location of
the adult establishment, building, fire, health, or similar state or local
codes. In the event that the Town Clerk fails to make such a determination
within the prescribed time period, the Town Clerk shall proceed with processing
the application.
      (C)    The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall review the application to
confirm compliance with the Zoning Ordinance. If the Board confirms compliance,
then a special exception shall be granted and the findings transmitted to the
Town Clerk within 20 working days of receipt of the application.
      (D)    The police department shall report to the Town Clerk no later than
20 working days after the receipt of the application by the police department
the results of its investigation of the applicant. In the event that the police
department fails to report to the Town Clerk within this time period, the Town
Clerk shall proceed with processing the application.
      (E)    Upon completion of his/her investigation, payment of the
applicable license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment and the police department (or upon expiration of the time periods
referenced above without receiving a report), the Town Clerk shall determine
whether or not a license shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for
determination by the Town Clerk exceed 45 working days from the date the
application is received by the Town Clerk, unless consented to by the
applicant.
   (2)   In the case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the Canton Police
Department.
      (A)    The police department shall report to the Town Clerk no later than
20 working days after receipt of the application the results of its
investigation of the applicant. In the event that the police department fails
to report to the Town Clerk within this time period, the Town Clerk shall
proceed with processing the application.
      (B)    Upon completion of his/her investigation, payment of the
appropriate license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the police
department (or upon expiration of either or both time periods referenced above
without receiving a report), the Town Clerk shall determine whether or not a
license shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by
the Town Clerk exceed 60 days from the date the application is received by the
Town Clerk, unless consented to by the applicant.
   (d)   Reasons for disapproval. The Town Clerk shall deny the license
application for one or more of the following reasons:
   (1)   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter.
   (2)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers, directors,
and shareholders where applicable), has been convicted of a crime in the local,
state or federal court systems for any violations listed in this section.
   (3)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers and
directors, where applicable), has made false or fraudulent statements in the
application, evidence of which is disclosed by a town background investigation
or by any other lawful means.
   (4)   The application for an adult establishment does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (5)   The applicant for a sexually oriented business has not received
special exception from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (e)   Notice of approval or disapproval.
   (1)   Upon a determination by the Town Clerk of the disapproval or approval
of the application, the Town Clerk shall notify the applicant by personal
delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
applicant as shown on the application. In the event that the application is
disapproved, the notification shall state the basis for such disapproval.
   (2)   In the event an application is disapproved, the applicant shall have
30 days from the receipt of the notice of disapproval to appeal that
determination to the Superior Court of Haywood County.
   (f)   Changes to application. All applicants shall notify the Town Clerk of
any changes to the application within five working days of the date the change
occurs.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8005 Prohibited acts and conduct.
   (a)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any adult establishment.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be granted a license for an
adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (c)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall appear "bottomless" or in a state of nudity while on the
premises of the adult establishment.
   (d)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall perform any specified sexual activities as defined in this
chapter, wear or use any device or covering exposed to view which simulates any
specified anatomical area, use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined in this
chapter, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the premises of the
adult establishment.
   (e)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer or patron
of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, or knowingly permit another person to touch,
fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers, whether such
specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed, while on
the premises of the adult establishment.
   (f)   There shall be a minimum separation of 24" between any entertainer or
performer and any patron or customer.
   (g)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall mix, dispense, or serve
any alcoholic beverage while in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (h)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall solicit, receive, or
accept nor shall any customer or patron give, offer, or provide any gratuity,
tip, payment or any other form of compensation for entertainment for or while
either or both is/are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This also pertains
to the purchase of an unrelated item that includes a "free" dance, act, or
service.
   (I) No owner, operator, manager or other person in charge of the premises of
an adult entertainment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of 21 years of age to be in or upon the premises or knowingly
allow or permit a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8006 License; Posting and display.
   (a)   Every person, corporation or partnership licensed under this chapter
as an adult establishment shall post such license in a conspicuous place and
manner of the adult establishment premises.
   (b)   Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or her
license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it shall
be readily available for the inspection by town authorities responsible for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8007 Inspections.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of the Canton Mayor
and Board of Aldermen, the Canton Police Department, the Haywood County
Sheriff's Department, and all town or state departments or agencies acting in
their official capacity, to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that
the business is complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8008 Suspension of revocation of licenses.
   (a)   The Town Clerk shall conduct a hearing to determine whether or not a
license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing conducted within ten
working days of his/her knowledge that:
   (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated, or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
   (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this chapter
that have occurred under such circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult establishment knew or should have known that such violations were
committed;
   (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the application
for such license, or renewal thereof;
   (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced or is being or was
used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than that
identified on the license or for a use or type other than that for which the
license was issued;
   (5)   The licensee failed to make a complete disclosure of all information
in the application for such license, or renewal thereof;
   (6)   The owner or operator, or any partner, or any corporate officer or
director holding an adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter;
   (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter.
   (b)   At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard, to
present evidence and to be represented by an attorney. Based on the evidence
produced at the hearing, the Town Clerk shall take, within five working days
after the hearing, any of the following actions:
   (1)   Suspend the license for up to 90 days;
   (2)   Revoke the license;
   (3)   Place the license holder on administrative probation for a period of
up to one year, on the condition that no further violations of this chapter
occur during the period of probation; or
   (4)   Take no action.
   (c)   The Town Clerk shall provide written notice of his/her decision to the
applicant by certified mail, returned receipt requested. The notice shall be
sent immediately after the Town Clerk determines what action to take, as
described above.
   (d)   In the event of suspension or revocation of the license or the
placement on administrative probation, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the Superior Court of Haywood County within 30
days of receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation or probation.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8009 License renewal.
   (a)   A license may be renewed by making application to the Town Clerk on
application forms provided for that purpose. Any license issued under this
chapter shall expire as of the end of the 12 month period from the date of its
issuance, and renewal applications for such licenses shall be submitted no
sooner than 45 days prior to expiration and no later than the city business day
immediately preceding the date of expiration of the license.
   (b)   Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment in full
of the license fee, the Town Clerk shall issue to the applicant a receipt
showing the date of the renewal application and granting to the applicant a
temporary extension of the license for a period of 45 days or until the
application for renewal is approved or disapproved. Any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter may be renewed by issuance of a new license for
an additional 12 month period. All applications for renewal of license shall be
processed in the manner provided for the issuance of the initial license.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8010 Transfer of License.
   A licensee shall not transfer his/ her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8011 Locational Restrictions.
   Sexually oriented businesses may be permitted as a conditional use in the
following zoning districts: C-1 Central Business; C-2 General Business; C-
3 Neighborhood Business; C-4 Highway Business; I-1 Light Industrial; 1-2 Heavy
Industrial, provided that:
   (a)   The sexually oriented business may not be located or operated within
1,500 feet of:
   (1)   A church, synagogue, or regular place of worship;
   (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
   (3)   A public library;
   (4)   A public park or playground;
   (5)   A licensed day-care center;
   (6)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards children.
   (7)   Another sexually oriented business.
   (b)   For the purpose of this ordinance, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of any use listed in (a) above.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8012 Non-Conforming Uses.
   (a)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this
ordinance that is in violation of the locational or structural configuration
requirements of this ordinance shall be deemed a non-conforming use. The non-
conforming use will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two
years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for
a period of 30 days or more. Such non-conforming uses shall not be increased,
enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed to a
conforming use. If two or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,500
feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually
oriented business that was first established and continually operating at a
particular location is the conforming use and the later-established business is
non-conforming.
   (b)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license. This provision applies only
to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an
application for a business license is submitted after a business license has
expired or has been revoked.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8013 Additional Regulations for Adult Motels.
   (a)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than 10 hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the enterprise
is an adult motel as that term is defined in this ordinance.
   (b)   It is unlawful for a person to, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or sub-rents a sleeping room to a
person and, within 10 hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or sub-
rents the same sleeping room again.
   (c)   For purposes of subsection (b) of this section, the terms "rent" or
"sub-rent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8014 Additional Regulations for Escort Agencies.
   (a)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (b)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 21 years.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8015 Additional Regulations for Nude Model Studios.
   (a)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (b)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this ordinance
if the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of a nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if
the person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or
visible by any other person.
   (c)   It is a violation of this ordinance if the person appears in a state
of nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an
area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right
of way.
   (d)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8016 Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit Films,
Videos, and Live Performances.
   (a)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, other video reproduction, or live performance that depicts specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the
following requirements:
   (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designed street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Town Clerk may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
   (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the Town Clerk or his designee.
   (4)   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designed, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required
in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
   (6)   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in Subsection (5) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to subsection (1) of this section.
   (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than on person at any time.
   (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
   (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (10)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
   (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
   (12)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
   (13)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
   (14)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other composition board or other porous material shall be
used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (b)   A person having a duty under subsections (1) through (14) of this
section is in violation of this ordinance if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill
that duty.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8017 Exterior portions of Sexually Oriented Businesses.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
   (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
   (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial multi-
unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted the
same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a component
of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial multi-unit
center.
   (d)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   (e)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8018 Signage.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any sexually
oriented business or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign
for the sexually oriented business other than as permitted in the Zoning
Ordinance for the Town of Canton.
   (b)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8019 Massages or Baths Administered by a Person of the Opposite Sex.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type of business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8020 Hours of Operation.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of one o'clock (1:00)A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) P.M. on Sundays.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8021 Exemptions.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (a)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of North Carolina, a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
   (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8022 Notices.
   (a)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Town Clerk or any
other city office, division, department or other agency under this ordinance to
any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may be given
either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the Town Clerk. Notices mailed as above shall be
deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In the event that
any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the Town Clerk or
his designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to the
establishment.
   (b)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Town Clerk by any
person under this ordinance shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (c)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Town Clerk in writing of
any change of residence or mailing address.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8023 Injunction.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid business license or in violation of this ordinance is subject
to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each
day a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offense or
violation.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
Section 8-8024 Severability.
   If any section, subsection, or clause of this ordinance shall be deemed to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining
sections, subsections, and clauses shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. of 8-24-99)
CHAPTER 9
Weapons
Section
8-9001   Displaying of handguns on Town property.
Section
8-9002   Carrying of concealed weapons on Town property.
Section
8-9003   Posting of signs required.
Section
8-9004   Location of signs.
Section 8-9001 Displaying of handguns on Town property.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display a handgun on any real
property legally owned or controlled by the Town of Canton.
(Ord. of 3/29/96)
Section 8-9002 Carrying of concealed weapons on Town property.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of N.C.G.S. Chapter 14, Article 54B for
any person to carry a concealed handgun on any real property legally owned or
controlled by the Town of Canton.
(Ord. of 3/29/96)
Section 8-9003 Posting of signs required.
   The Town Manager is hereby ordered to post appropriate signs on each park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased, operated,
occupied, managed or controlled by she Town of Canton as well as the
appurtenant premises to such buildings, and any other real property legally
owned or controlled by the Town, indicating that all concealed handguns and the
display of other firearms are prohibited therein.
(Ord. of 3/29/96)
Section 8-9004 Location of signs.
   Said signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which
the general public can access the building, appurtenant premise, park, or other
Town property. The Town Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the
necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of
the building, appurtenant premise, or park.
(Ord. of 3/29/96)
CHAPTER 10
Registered Sex Offenders
Section
8-10001   Definitions.
Section
8-10002   Public parks.
Section 8-10001   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms are defined as
herein indicated.
   (1)   Public park.  Any publicly owned or maintained land which is
designated by the Town as a park or recreation facility.
   (2)   Registered sex offender.  An individual who is registered by any state
or federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to the sex
offender registry established in G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 27A.
(Ord. of 5/10/05)
Section 8-10002   Public parks.
   (a)   It shall constitute a general offense against the regulations of the
Town for any person or persons registered with the State of North Carolina and
or any other state or federal agency to knowingly enter into or on any public
park owned, operated, or maintained by the Town.
   (b)   Anyone who is found in violation of this section shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $500 per offense and or 30 days in jail. Each and every
entrance into a park, regardless of the time period involved, shall constitute
a separate offense under this section.
   (c)   The Town Manager shall be charged with posting this regulation at the
main entrance of each park within 30 days of the passage of this section.
(Ord. of 5/10/05)
CHAPTER 11
Tobacco Use in Town Buildings,
Town Vehicles, and on Town Grounds
Section
8-11001   Authority.
Section
8-11002   Definition of terms.
Section
8-11003   Smoking prohibited in Town buildings.
Section
8-11004   Smoking prohibited on Town grounds.
Section
8-11005   Smokeless tobacco prohibited in certain Town buildings.
Section
8-11006   Smoking prohibited in Town vehicles.
Section
8-11007   Electronic cigarettes or vapor products.
Section
8-11008   Cigarette butts as litter.
Section
8-11009   Spitting tobacco on Town grounds.
Section
8-11010   Authority of Town Manager to designate smoking areas.
Section
8-11011   Notice required.
Section
8-11012   Implementation requirements.
Section
8-11013   Enforcement and penalties.
Section
8-11014   Severability; conflict of laws.
Section 8-11001 Authority.
   This section is enacted pursuant to authority conveyed by G.S. 130A-498 and
160A-174(a).
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11002 Definition of terms.
   The following definitions are applicable to this chapter:
   (a)   Town building. A building owned, leased as lessor, or the area leased
as lessee and occupied by the Town and includes but is not limited to offices,
restrooms, indoor walkways, stairwells, entrances, passageways, break rooms,
lobbies, and work areas.
   (b)   Grounds. An unenclosed area owned, leased, or occupied by the Town.
   (c)   Town vehicle. A passenger-carrying vehicle owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by the Town and assigned permanently or temporarily by the Town to
Town employees, agencies, institutions, or facilities for official Town
business.
   (d)   Employee. A person who is employed by the Town, or who contracts with
the Town or a third person to perform services for the Town, or who otherwise
performs services for the Town with or without compensation.
   (e)   Local Health Department. The public health authority, or County Health
Department, the jurisdiction of which includes the Town of Canton.
   (f)   Universal “No Smoking and Use of Tobacco Products Prohibited” symbol.
Symbol consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette and a
tobacco product enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it.
   (g)   Smoking. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product.
   (h)   Tobacco product. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco
that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any
component part or accessory of a tobacco product, including but not limited to:
cigarettes; cigars, little cigars, cheroots, stogies, periques, granulated,
plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco, snuff; snuff
flour, Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco, fine-cut and other chewing tobacco,
shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco, and other
kinds and forms of tobacco. A tobacco product excludes any product that has
been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for such an approved
purpose.
   (i)   E-cigarettes/vapor product. Any electronic oral device, such as one
composed of heating elements, battery, and/or electronic circuit, which
provides a vapor or nicotine or any other substances, and the use or inhalation
of which simulates smoking. The term shall include any such device, whether
manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-
pipe, or under any other product name or descriptor.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11003 Smoking prohibited in Town buildings.
   No person shall smoke, carry or possess a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking equipment or paraphernalia in any Town building.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11004 Smoking prohibited on Town grounds.
   (a)   No person shall smoke, carry or possess a lighted cigar, cigarette,
pipe or other lighted smoking equipment or paraphernalia on any Town grounds
including parks and recreational areas.
   (b)   This section does not apply to:
   (1)   Smoking, carrying or possessing a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking equipment or paraphernalia in a designated area as
determined and delineated by the Town Manager.
   (2)   Smoking, carrying or possessing a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking equipment or
paraphernalia within the limits of a public right-of-way where the right-of-way
boundary does not overlap with a zone measuring 25 feet from a public entryway,
measured from and along a single building face.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11005 Smokeless tobacco prohibited in certain Town buildings.
   The use of smokeless tobacco shall not be permitted in the following
buildings:
   (1)   Armory.
   (2)   Colonial Theatre.
   (3)   Town Hall.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11006 Smoking prohibited in Town vehicles.
   No person shall smoke, carry or possess a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking equipment or paraphernalia in any Town vehicle.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11007 Electronic cigarettes or vapor products.
   Use of e-cigarettes is prohibited in any Town vehicle or Town building where
smoking and the use of tobacco products are prohibited.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11008 Cigarette butts as litter.
   No person shall dispose of cigarette butts, cigar tips, used dip, or any
tobacco waste on Town grounds except for in designated trash receptacles or
smoking urns.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11009 Spitting tobacco on Town grounds.
   Spitting smokeless tobacco anywhere on Town grounds including parks and
recreational areas is prohibited and is subject to civil penalty.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11010 Authority of Town Manager to designate smoking areas.
   The Town Manager shall have the authority to designate smoking areas for all
Town grounds.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11011 Notice required.
   (a)   Clear and conspicuous signs shall be posted in every building and
facility and/or grounds wherein tobacco use is regulated by this chapter as
follows:
   (b)   Stand alone “No Smoking,” “No Smokeless Tobacco,” or other signs
stating the tobacco use policy shall have letters of not less than one inch in
height, the international “No Smoking” symbol (consisting of a pictorial
representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a circle with a bar across
it), or the “No Smokeless Tobacco” symbol.
   (c)   In lieu of or in addition to stand alone signage, tobacco use
restrictions can be incorporated into comprehensive rules signage in text form
where feasible.
   (d)   Signs shall be conspicuously posted in a position clearly visible on
main entry points into Town buildings.
   (e)   Signs shall be conspicuously posted outside, within, or near
recreational public places where tobacco use is prohibited, but not at every
conceivable entry point whereby doing so would overburden the park with
signage.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove to deface any placard or
sign erected by or under the authority of this section.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11012 Implementation requirements.
   (a)   The Town shall post signs that meet all the requirements in Section
8-11011 of this chapter.
   (b)   The Town may locate ash urns or other smoking receptacles in
designated smoking areas. Absence of smoking receptacles does not relieve
tobacco users from legally disposing of tobacco waste nor does it nullify a
designated smoking area.
   (c)   Town staff shall direct a person who is smoking or using a tobacco
product in a prohibited area to cease and, if the person does not comply, shall
contact the Town Police Department.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11013 Enforcement and penalties.
   (a)   Penalty for violation. Violation of Sections
8-11003,
8-11004,
8-11005,
8-11006,
8-11007,
8-11008, or
8-11009 shall constitute an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than
$50.
   (b)   A citation may be issued by a sworn law enforcement officer.
Conviction of an infraction under this section has no consequence other than as
set forth in division (a) above, and no court costs may be assessed.
   (c)   Additional sanctions for employees. In addition to any penalty under
this section, employees of the Town who violate this chapter shall be subject
to disciplinary action consistent with the Town’s human resources policies.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
Section 8-11014 Severability; conflict of laws.
   If this chapter or application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the chapter
that can be given separate effect and to that end the provisions of this
chapter are declared to be severable. Whenever the provisions of this chapter
conflict with other ordinances of the Town, this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. of 8/14/14)
PART 9
Planning and Regulation of Development
CHAPTER 1
Building Regulations
ARTICLE A Adoption of Regulatory Codes
Section
9-1001   Scope of Regulatory Codes.
Section
9-1002   Building Code adopted.
Section
9-1003   Plumbing Code adopted.
Section
9-1004   Heating Code adopted.
Section
9-1005   Electrical Code adopted.
Section
9-1006   Residential Building Code.
Section
9-1007   Amendments to codes.
Section
9-1008   Compliance with codes.
Section
9-1009   Copies of codes filed with clerk.
Section 9-1010 through 9-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE B Inspection Department
Section
9-1021   Organization of department.
Section
9-1022   General duties of department and inspectors.
Section
9-1023   Conflicts of interest.
Section
9-1024   Reports and records.
Section
9-1025   Inspection procedure.
Section
9-1026   Oversight not to legalize violation.
Section
9-1027   Powers of inspection officials.
Section
9-1028   Fee.
Section 9-1029 through 9-1040 reserved.
ARTICLE C Enforcement
Section
9-1041   Registration of contractors.
Section
9-1042   Bond required of contractors.
Section
9-1043   Permits required.
Section
9-1044   Application for permit.
Section
9-1045   Issuance of permit.
Section
9-1046   Revocation of permits.
Section
9-1047   Time limitations on validity of permits.
Section
9-1048   Changes in work.
Section
9-1049   Permit fees.
Section 9-1050 through 9-1060 reserved.
ARTICLE D Condemnation, Repair and Demolition of Unsafe Buildings
Section
9-1061   Duty of inspection department.
ARTICLE E Insulation Contractors
Section
9-1071   Authority.
Section
9-1072   Required license.
Section
9-1073   Applications.
Section
9-1074   Procedure for issuance.
Section
9-1075   Bond required.
Section
9-1076   Termination and renewal of licenses.
Section
9-1077   Suspension; revocation.
Section
9-1078   Change of location.
Section
9-1079   Required permit; fee; exceptions.
Section
9-1080   Penalties.
Section 9-1081 through 9-1099 reserved.
ARTICLE F Additional Regulations
Section
9-1100   Street numbers to be displayed.
ARTICLE G Building Maintenance Standards
Section
9-1200   Title.
Section
9-1201   Purpose.
Section
9-1202   Findings; authority.
Section
9-1203   Scope; jurisdiction.
Section
9-1204   Definitions.
Section
9-1205   Commercial property maintenance requirements.
Section
9-1206   Commercial property interior maintenance standards.
Section
9-1207   Registration requirements for vacant properties.
Section
9-1208   Security requirements for vacant properties.
Section
9-1209   Boarding-up structures.
Section
9-1210   Burned building(s)/structure(s)
Section
9-1211   Buildings for lease or sale.
Section
9-1212   Inspections.
Section
9-1213   Notice of violation and requirements of hearing.
Section
9-1214   Service of notice of violations and orders to take corrective action.
Section
9-1215   Nature of corrective actions.
Section
9-1216   Enforcement and penalties.
Section
9-1217   Appeal.
Section
9-1218   Validity.
Section
9-1219   Conflict with other provisions.
Section
9-1220   Amendments.
Section
9-1221   Preemption.
ARTICLE A
Adoption of Regulatory Codes
Section 9-1001 Scope of Regulatory Codes.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (1)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use, and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected or attached to such building or structure;
   (2)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (3)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and appurtenances thereof; and
   (4)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
Section 9-1002 Building Code adopted.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina State Building Code (Volume
I, General Construction), as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein; including Chapter 4, Permits and Certificates, 401.1-603.19.5,
including any future changes or additions.
(Ord. of 2/23/93)
Section 9-1003 Plumbing Code adopted.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth herein.
Section 9-1004 Heating Code adopted.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina Heating Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume III, Heating) as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth herein.
Section 9-1005 Electrical Code Adopted.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical) as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth herein.
Section 9-1006 Residential Building Code.
   The 1968, or later edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential
Building Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I-B, Residential), as
adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
Section 9-1007 Amendments to codes.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein shall be effective in the Town at the time such amendments
are filed with the Town clerk or building inspector as provided in section
9-1009.
Section 9-1008 Compliance with codes.
   (a)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished, or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards, and other
provisions of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General
Construction, Volume I or the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I-B,
Residential, whichever is applicable, or of both if both are applicable.
   (b)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (c)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Heating).
   (d)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
Section 9-1009 Copies of codes filed with clerk.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
clerk or building inspector. The copies shall be the official copies of the
codes and the amendments.
Section 9-1010 through 9-1020 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Inspection Department
Section 9-1021 Organization of department.
   The inspection department of the Town shall consist of a building inspector,
and may also include a plumbing inspector, a heating-air conditioning
inspector, an electrical inspector, and such other inspectors or deputy or
assistant inspectors as may be authorized by the Board. The Town manager may in
his discretion designate a department head.
Section 9-1022 General duties of department and inspectors.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the inspection department to enforce all of
the provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein, and
to make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and such codes are being met.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the inspection department to inspect all
dwelling units as they become vacant or at such time as the occupancy at the
unit is changed.
(Ord. of 1/26/88)
Section 9-1023 Conflicts of interest.
   No officer or employee of the inspection department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the
construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he is the owner of
the building. No officer or employee of the inspection department shall engage
in any work which is inconsistent with his duties or with the interests of the
Town.
Section 9-1024 Reports and records.
   The inspection department and each inspector shall keep complete, permanent,
and accurate records in convenient form of all applications received, permits
issued, inspections, and reinspections made, and all other work and activities
of the inspection department. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the
manager/Board, and to other agencies, as required.
Section 9-1025 Inspection procedure.
   (a)   The inspection department shall inspect all buildings and structures
and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as often as
necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this chapter and
the appropriate codes.
   (b)   When deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector, materials, and
assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication, or
inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection organizations;
provided, no approval shall be based upon reports of the organizations unless
the same are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of the
organization.
   (c)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the inspection
department and the appropriate inspector at each of the following stages of
construction so that approval may be given before work is continued:
   (1)   Foundation inspection is to be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles, and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
   (2)   Framing inspection is to be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing, electrical and heating has been
installed; after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed;
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured in place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
   (3)   Fireproofing inspection is to be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
   (4)   Final inspection is to be made after building or structure has all
doors hung, fixtures set, and is ready for occupancy, but before the building
is occupied.
Section 9-1026 Oversight not to legalize violation.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the inspection department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
Section 9-1027 Powers of inspection officials.
   (a)   Authority. Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed
to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (b)   Right-of-entry. With an appropriate warrant or permission from the
owner or occupant, inspectors shall have the right-of-entry on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the applicable regulatory codes.
   (c)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
Town ordinance, or in violation of any provisions of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in such manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector
may order the work to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing to
the owner of the property or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed.
Section 9-1028 Fee.
   There shall be a fee of $35 for inspections requested by realtors and the
general public.
(Ord. of 1/26/88)
Section 9-1029 through 9-1040 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Enforcement
Section 9-1041 Registration of contractors.
   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, heating-air conditioning contractor, or electrical contractor
within the Town shall register at the office of the inspection department,
giving name and place of business.
Section 9-1042 Bond required of contractors.
   Every person required to register at the office of the inspection department
under the preceding section may be required to give a good and sufficient bond
to be approved by the Town conditioned upon faithful performance of duty in
doing any work which he may have contracted to do; and to indemnify the Town
against loss in any manner whatsoever for any unskillful or negligent work or
conduct in the performance of the duties imposed by the provisions of this
chapter or any regulatory code herein adopted, or any damage to any utility
lines, streets, or sidewalks in the Town, or for the use of defective or
improper material in the work, or for the payment of any inspector or other
fees required by this chapter.
Section 9-1043 Permits required.
   (a)   Building permit.
   (1)   No person shall commence or proceed with the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any building or
other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit therefor from
the building inspector; provided, however, that no building permit shall be
required for work, the total cost of which does not exceed $100, and which does
not involve any change of the structural parts or the stairways, elevators,
fire escapes or other means of egress to the building or the structure in
question.
   County Board of Health approval of a septic tank is required where the
sewage system cannot be connected to the Town sewer.
   (2)   In all cases of removal or demolition of a building or structure, a
good and sufficient bond may be required to be posted by the property owner or
by his contractor at the time of application for a permit, to insure complete
removal or demolition, including all rubble and debris. Failure on the part of
the property owner or his contractor to completely demolish, remove, and clear
the premises, after 30 days' notice by the building inspector, shall be cause
for forfeiture of the bond.
   (b)   Plumbing permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the plumbing inspector; provided, however, no
permit shall be required for minor repairs or replacements on the house side of
a trap to an installed system of plumbing if the repairs or replacements do not
disrupt the original water supply or the waste or ventilating systems.
   (c)   Heating-air conditioning permit. No person shall commence or proceed
with the installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any heating
or cooling equipment system without a written permit from the heating-air
conditioning inspector; provided, however, no permit shall be required for
minor repairs or minor burner services or filter replacements of warm air
furnaces or cooling systems.
   (d)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any electrical
wiring, devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from
the electrical inspector; provided, however, no permit shall be required for
minor repair work such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of
portable devices to suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed;
provided, further, no permit shall be required from the installation,
alteration, or repair of the electrical wiring, devices, appliances, and
equipment installed by or for an electrical public utility corporation for the
use of such corporation in the generation, transmission, distribution, or
metering of electrical energy.
Section 9-1044 Application for permit.
   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this article
and shall be made on forms provided by the inspection department. The
application shall be made by the owner of the building or structure affected or
by his authorized agent or representative, and, in addition to such other
information as may be required by the appropriate inspector to enable him to
determine whether the permit applied for should be issued, shall show the
following:
   (1)   Name, residence, and business address of owner;
   (2)   Name, residence, and business of authorized representative or agent,
if any; and
   (3)   Name and address of the constructor, if any, together with evidence
that he has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing board
for such contractors, if such be required for the work involved in the permit
for which application is made.
Section 9-1045 Issuance of permit.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he shall
issue the permit, upon payment of the proper fee or fees as hereinafter
provided in section
9-1049.
Section 9-1046 Revocation of permits.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
Section 9-1047 Time limitations on validity of permits.
   All permits issued under this article shall expire by limitation six (6)
months after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not
been commenced. If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of
12 months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by
any permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
Section 9-1048 Changes in work.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this article or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of such changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
Section 9-1049 Permit fees.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all subcontracts if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the Town as determined by the appropriate inspector or inspectors. Permit fees
shall be established by the Board, and as follows:
New Dwellings or Residential Customers
Service in amperes   Fee
Temporary (1)   $10.00
Up to (and includes) 100 amp   25.00
101 - 150 amps   30.00
151 - 200 amps   35.00
Over 200 amps, add $5.00 per 100 amps.
New Buildings or Additions - Commercial and Non-Residential
   Single       Three
Building Size   Phase   Phase
Up to and including 2,000 square feet (3)   $ 30.00       $ 35.00
2,001 - 5,000 square feet (4)   40.00       45.00
5,001 - 10,000 square feet (6)   50.00       65.00
10,001 - 20,000 square feet (10)   90.00       105.00
20,001 - 40,000 square feet (12)   130.00       145.00
40,001 - 50,000 square feet (15)   170.00       185.00
Over 50,001 square feet add $5.00 per 1000 square feet.
Non-Buildings - Outdoor Lighting, Signs, Pump Stations, CATV Boosters, etc.
By Size of Service in Amperes   Any Phase
Up to and including 60 amps (2)   $ 30.00
61 - 100 amps (2)   40.00
101 - 150 amps (3)   50.00
151 - 200 amps (4)   60.00
201 - 400 amps (5)   100.00
401 - 600 amps (7)   140.00
601 - 800 amps (10)   180.00
801 - 1200 amps    220.00
Over 1200 amps, add $20.00 per 100 amps.
Existing Wiring - Installations, Repair and Alterations, Home and Commercial
Services: Point of connection to and including main panel(s) with overcurrent
devices.
1.   If more than one lighting panel is installed, add $10.00 per panel.
2.   Service entrance work with no panel work:
   Single phase (1)      $20.00
   Three phase (1)      $25.00
3.   Service entrance work with panel work:
   Single   Three
Size of Service in Amperes   Phase   Phase
Up to and including 100 amps (2)   $ 20.00   $ 25.00
101 - 150 amps (2)   25.00    30.00
151 - 200 amps (2)   30.00    40.00
201 - 400 amps (2)   50.00    60.00
401 - 600 amps (2)    70.00    80.00
601 - 800 amps (2)   90.00   100.00
Over 800 amps, add $10.00 per 100 amps.
Circuit wiring - in addition to service if service is changed or worked on.
Includes additions, repairs, and alterations of circuits and the fixtures
boxes, taps, and other related equipment. 240 volt, two pole is considered two
circuits. Three pole, three phase is considered three circuits.
Number of Circuits   Fee
Circuit extension to 2 circuits (1)   $10.00
(if rough-in is required on the 1 to 2 column above add $5.00)
3 to 5 (2)   15.00
6 to 10 (2)   20.00
11 to 20 (2)   25.00
21 to 30 (2)   30.00
31 to 40 (3)   40.00
41 to 50 (4)   50.00
Over 50 circuits, add $1.00 per circuit.
(Ord. of 1/26/88)
   Building Permits
Building Cost   Proposed Fees
Under $5,000   $10.00
$5,000 - $9,999   $25.00
$10,000 - $29,999   $50.00
$30,000 - $49,999   $75.00
$50,000 - $99,999   $125.00
Over 100,000   $300.00
Fees for building permits also include charges for inspections by the Town
Building Inspector.
(Ord. of 6/26/90; As Amended by Ord. of 4/8/97)
   Plumbing Permits
1 - 4 fixtures   $3.00
Each additional fixture   $ .50
This permit covers the cost of inspections by Town staff. The Town shall retain
the one dollar ($1.00) fee for "extra inspections" made necessary by the
failure of a plumber or contractor to carry out his work in a proper manner.
   Heating
Unit Code   Permit Fee
0 - $1,000   $3.00
$1,000 - $2,000   $5.00
Each additional $1,000   $2.00
Section 9-1050 through 9-1060 reserved.
ARTICLE D
Condemnation, Repair and Demolition of Unsafe Buildings
Section 9-1061 Duty of Inspection department.
   The inspection department shall be charged with enforcing the provisions of
G.S. 160A-426 through G.S. 160A-434, relating to the condemnation, repair and
demolition of unsafe buildings, upon the direction of the Board.
Section 9-1062 through 9-1070 reserved.
ARTICLE E
Insulation Contractors
Section 9-1071 Authority.
   This article is adopted pursuant to Chapter 703, North Carolina Session Laws
of 1977, and Section 160A-I94 of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
(Ord. of 12/27/77. Sec. 2 )
Section 9-1072 Required license.
   On and after January 1. 1978. no person, firm, or corporation may for a
consideration install. alter, or restore within the Town any insulation or
other materials or energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet
the State Building Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization
standards who is not either (i) licensed as a contractor to do the proposed
work under Chapter 87 of the General Statutes, (ii) working under the
supervision of a registered architect or professional engineer, (iii) an owner
working upon his own building. or (iv) licensed under this article.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec. 2)
Section 9-1073 Applications.
   Every person desiring a license under this article shall submit an
application for such license to the Town Clerk conforming to the following
requirements:
   (1)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the Town Clerk.
   (2)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
   a.   Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or home
office address, if a corporation or partnership:
   b.   Names and home addresses of the partners. if a partnership:
   c.   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation.
   d.   Place where the proposed business is to be located.
   e.   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud, or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer. or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction:
   f.   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any employee.
partner. officer, or director of the applicant authorizing activities of the
type authorized herein or other activities involving construction, alteration,
or modification of buildings and structures:
   g.   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state, or
federal government or agency has refused. suspended, or revoked a license of
the type described in paragraph f. to the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer, or director of the applicant.
   (3)   Fees. Each application shall be accompanied by a fee of five dollars
($5.00) for such license, such amount to be for the fiscal year and prorated by
quarters to the end of such year.
   (4)   False statements. False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of such license.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec.3)
Section 9-1074 Procedure for issuance.
   (a)   Review by town officers. Each application received by the Town Clerk
shall be promptly forwarded to the Inspector for review.
   (b)   Licensing agency. The application and any comments and recommendations
relating thereto shall be considered by the Inspector, who shall then issue or
deny the license pursuant to the following standards.
   (c)   Standards. The Inspector shall issue the license unless it shall find
that the applicant or any employee. partner, officer, or director of the
applicant:
   (1)   Has been convicted within the last three (3) years of a felony or an
act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit whether in this or any other state
or jurisdiction;
   (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein or
has had a license suspended or revoked by any local, state, or federal
government or agency and such government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored such license:
   (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application:
   (4)   Has failed to post the bond or other security required by section
9-1075.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec. 4)
Section 9-1075 Bond required.
   (a)   Before a license shall be issued to any applicant, the applicant shall
post a bond with the Town in the amount of $1,000. In lieu of posting a bond,
the applicant may deposit a cashier's check or cash in the same amount.
   (b)   The security required by subsection (a) shall be available to
indemnify any person for any damage which may accrue by reason of the
applicant's failure to properly provide or install insulation, energy
utilization equipment or other materials designed or intended to meet the State
Building Code Standards for insulation and energy utilization.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec. 5)
Section 9-1076 Termination and renewal of licenses.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal
year for which issued. Renewal of such licenses shall be pursuant to the same
procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec. 6)
Section 9-1077 Suspension; revocation.
   (a)   The Inspector may suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder at
any time upon a showing that the applicant or any employee, partner. officer,
or director of the applicant has (i) knowingly made a false statement in the
application for a license, or (ii) violated the State Building Code
requirements as to insulation or energy utilization equipment or materials,
whether in this or any other jurisdiction, or (iii) been convicted of an act
involving dishonesty. fraud, or deceit with respect to any contract entered
into for work requiring this license.
   (b)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. After reasonable
notice to the licensee, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall afford the
licensee an opportunity to show why its license should not be suspended or
revoked.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec. 7)
Section 9-1078 Change of locations.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided 10 days
notice thereof is given to the Town and operation at such new location does not
violate any applicable State or local law, ordinance, or regulation.
(Ord. of 12/27/78, Sec. 8)
Section 9-1079 Required permit; fee; exceptions.
   (a)   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm, or corporation may for
a consideration install, alter, or restore any insulation or other materials or
energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building
Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization without first securing
a special insulation and energy utilization permit from the Building Inspector
for each item of work, which permit shall evidence compliance with the
insulation and energy utilization standards of the State Building Code.
   (b)   There shall be a fee of $5.00 for each permit issued.
   (c)   The following shall not be required to obtain the permit required by
subsection (a):
   (1)   an owner working upon his own building;
   (2)   an installer working under the supervision of a registered architect
or professional engineer, when the work is being performed under a general
building permit;
   (3)   a contractor licensed to do the proposed work under Chapter 87 of the
General Statutes, when the work is being performed under a general building
permit.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec. 9)
Section 9-1080 Penalties.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this article
shall be subject to all the applicable punishment, penalties, and equitable
relief provided for by Section 160A-175 of the General Statutes and Chapter
703, North Carolina Session Laws of 1977.
(Ord. of 12/27/77, Sec. 10)
ARTICLE F
Additional Regulations
Section 9-1100 Street numbers to be displayed.
   Every residence and business in the town shall have at least a three (3")
inch number or plaque plainly placed on the street side of their property
showing the number of their residence or business.
(Ord. of 4/22/86; Amended by Ord. of 10/22/96)
ARTICLE G
Building Maintenance Standards
Section 9-1200 Title.
   This Article shall be known as "Building Maintenance Standards" for the Town
of Canton, and may be cited as such, and will be referred to hereinafter as
"this Article."
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1201 Purpose.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Canton Town Mayor and Board of Aldermen,
through the adoption of this Article, to establish a set of building
maintenance standards for all commercial properties as a mechanism to preserve
the historic integrity and vitality of Canton's business districts, eliminate
blight, deter crime, protect property values, reduce the risk of damage from
fire, flooding, or other hazards, and promote the comfort, happiness, and
emotional stability of residents and businesses alike. In particular, the Town
finds that vacant properties and those exhibiting evidence of abandonment pose
special risks to the health, safety, and welfare of the community and therefore
require certain regulatory provisions be enacted. This Article is not intended
to create a hardship for the existing property owner of vacant or occupied
commercial buildings but instead to aid in Town efforts to promote the
viability and marketability of the community.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1202 Findings; authority.
   (a)   Pursuant to the Town's general ordinance making power conferred by
G.S. § 160A-174, it is hereby found that the Town of Canton contains commercial
structures which are not maintained sufficiently to provide for the health,
safety, and welfare of its citizens, protect property values, promote tourism
and economic development and preserve the integrity and character of the
community. It is further found, pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A-439, that there
exist in the Town non-residential (i.e. commercial) buildings or structures
which are unsafe and especially dangerous to life because of susceptibility to
fire failing walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress, and other causes.
   (b)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
Town non-residential (i.e. commercial) buildings or structures which, although
not meeting the classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail
to fully comply with all the minimum standards for non-residential (i.e.
commercial) buildings or structural fitness as established herein and,
therefore, have present one or more conditions which are inimical to the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the community and/or adjacent
properties. Such conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration,
dilapidation and blight of non-residential (i.e. commercial) buildings or
structures which render them unsafe and especially dangerous to life.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1203 Scope; jurisdiction.
   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all properties in the C-
1 Central Business, C-2 General Business, C-3 Neighborhood Business, C-
4 Highway Business, I-1 Light Industrial, and I-2 Heavy Industrial Business
Districts of the Town of Canton and its ETJ Extra Territorial Jurisdiction to
the extent applicable by law. Residential properties are not subject to the
provision of this Article.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1204 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this Article, certain words and phrases used in this
Article are defined as follows:
   (1)   Boarding-up means erecting, installing, placing, or maintaining boards
other materials over the doors, windows, or other openings of any commercial
building or structure, whether vacant or occupied, or otherwise securing such
opening by means other than the conventional method used in the original
construction and design of the building or structure located on the property.
   (2)   Building Code means the North Carolina Commercial Building Code.
   (3)   Business days means consecutive business days (Monday-Friday).
   (4)   Commencement of work means all necessary permits have been pulled and
job site activity has commenced including, but not limited to, mobilization,
the delivery of supplies and equipment, and individuals engaged in construction
activity.
   (5)   Days means consecutive calendar days.
   (6)   Deterioration means the condition of a building or part thereof,
characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other
evidence of physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   (7)   Electrical means all of the following supplies, facilities and
equipment: fixtures, receptacles, electrical panels, equipment and wiring.
   (8)   Evidence of abandonment or neglect means any aesthetic condition that
on its own or combined with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable
person to believe that the property is abandoned and/or property owner has made
no noticeable or meaningful attempt to improve the property and prepare it for
lease or sale. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown or
dead vegetation, extensively chipped or peeling exterior paint, exterior walls
in poor condition, porches and steps in poor condition, roofs in poor
condition, broken windows and other signs of general disrepair, accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail, past due utility notices or disconnected
utilities, accumulation of trash, junk or debris, the absence of window
covering (i.e. curtains, blinds, or shutters), statements by neighbors,
passersby, delivery agents, government employees that the property is
abandoned, dirty or un-kept appearance of interior.
   (9)   Government agency means any public body having authority over the
Property and residents of the Town, including but not limited to the Town of
Canton, Haywood County, Canton Police Department, Canton Fire Department,
Canton Code Enforcement, Haywood County Sheriffs Office.
   (10)   Government official means any public official representing a public
body which has authority over the property and residents of the Town, including
but not limited to the Town Administrators, Town Code Enforcement Officer, Town
Police Chief, County Building Inspector, County Fire Marshall.
   (11)   Graffiti means any inscriptions, words, figures, paintings, or other
defacements that are written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn,
painted, or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of real property or
improvements thereon without prior authorization of the owner or occupant of
the property by means of any aerosol paint container, broad-tipped marker,
brush.
   (12)   Historic District means the state-designated Canton Historic
District, as listed in the National Register of Historic Places and/or defined
in the ordinances establishing the Canton Historic District.
   (13)   Local means located within forty (40) road or driving miles distance
of the subject property.
   (14)   Non-residential property means any real property used or intended to
be used for anything other than residential property as defined herein.
   (15)   Occupied means occupancy by the owner or any business or individual
whose presence therein is with the consent of the owner with utilities
furnished to the property. This means that a business is currently housed and
operating at the subject property, has applied for and been issued an official
Business License from the Town of Canton.
   (16)   Out of area means located in excess of forty (40) road or driving
miles distance away from the subject property.
   (17)   Owner means any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a
legal or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official
records of the State of North Carolina or Haywood County as holding title to
the property: or otherwise having control of the property, including the
guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of
the estate of such person. Additionally, for the purpose of this Article, any
and all trustees in a Deed of Trust shall be considered an owner.
   (18)   Parties in interest means all individuals, associations, and
corporations who have interests of record in a non-residential building or
structure and any who are in possession thereof.
   (19)   Physical valuation means the estimated cost to replace a building in
kind.
   (20)   Plumbing means all of the following supplies, facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters,
garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, catch basins, vents and similar fixtures, together
with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines, and water pipes and lines
utilized in conjunction with HVAC equipment.
   (21)   Property means any unimproved or improved real property or portion
thereof, situated in the Town of Canton and includes the buildings or
structures located on the property regardless of condition.
   (22)   Residential property means a building, or portion thereof, designed
exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-family and multi-family
dwellings, mobile and/or manufactured homes, boarding and lodging houses,
apartment houses, and apartment hotels of stand-alone hotels.
   (23)   Securing means such measures as may be directed by the Town Code
Enforcement Officer and/or Town Manager or his/her designee that renders the
property inaccessible to unauthorized persons, including but not limited to the
repairing of fences and walls, chaining or padlocking of gates, the repairing
of doors, windows or other openings.
   (24)   Structural means any and all interior and exterior walls, partitions,
supporting members, joists, rafters, floors, roofs, foundations, piers,
interior and exterior steps, railings, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances.
   (25)   Town means the Town of Canton corporate limits and it's Extra
Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ).
   (26)   Town of Canton Code Enforcement Officer means the person delegated as
such by the Town Manager.
   (27)   Utilities means water, sewer, telephone, natural and propane gas, and
electricity services.
   (28)   Vacant means a property that has not been legally occupied for 120
days.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1205 Commercial property maintenance requirements.
   Properties subject to this Article shall be kept in compliance with the
following maintenance requirements at all times:
   (1)   Exterior surfaces in general.
   a.   The exteriors of a commercial building(s)/structures(s) on the
property; whether vacant or occupied, shall be painted and maintained in a way
that does not exhibit any evidence of abandonment or neglect. All exterior
surfaces, including but not limited to doors, door and window frames, window
mullions and grills, cornices, porches, and trim shall be maintained in good
repair. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall be
protected from the elements and decay by painting or other protective covering
or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and
surfaces repainted. Decayed wood shall be replaced. All siding and masonry
joints shall be maintained, weather resistant and water tight. All windows
shall be properly glazed to eliminate water infiltration. Missing, loose, or
crumbling mortar joints shall be removed and repointed. Missing and rotting
portions of siding shall be replaced. Missing and/or damaged brick(s) shall be
replaced. Leaning, buckling, or separating walls shall be reconstructed or
permanently stabilized to prevent collapse. In addition, any loose stucco shall
be removed and patched. All surfaces shall be free of graffiti.
   b.   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of demolition
of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows, vents or other
similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall unless
such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this Article. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be scaled, cleaned, and
weather sealed or concealed by paint, stucco, or brick to prevent deterioration
of the wall. Any improvements to an exposed wall must be done in a manner and
with materials that will compliment the original character of the building and
that of surrounding properties.
   (2)   Foundational walls. All foundational walls shall be maintained so as
to carry the safe design and operating dead and live loads of the structure and
shall be maintained plumb and free from open cracks and breaks so as not to be
detrimental to public safety and welfare. Proper drainage measures shall be in
place so as to not allow rain water to enter a building/structure and/or its
foundation.
   (3)   Roofs.
   a.   Roofs of commercial buildings, whether vacant or occupied, shall be
maintained so that they are structurally sound and in a safe condition and have
no defects which might admit rain or cause dampness in the interior portions of
the building. All portions, additions or sections of a roof including, but not
limited to, the fascia, eave, soffit, sheathing, rafter tail, barge rafter,
vent screening, gutter, downspout, and metal flashing, shall be complete with
all trim strips, moldings, brackets, braces and supports attached or fastened
in accordance with common building practices or otherwise specified in the
North Carolina Building Code.
   b.   Gutters must be free of vegetation and in good repair. Gutters and down
spouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary and shall be appropriately
located and securely installed so as not to cause hazard to pedestrians,
vehicular traffic or property.
   c.   Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rainwater from causing
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the building.
   (4)   Exterior stairways, fire escapes, decks, porches, and balconies.
   a.   Exterior stairways, fire escapes, decks, porches and balconies, and all
appurtenances attached thereto, of a building shall be maintained so that they
are structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable of
supporting the imposed loads. Decks, porches and balconies located on the
property shall be maintained in a way that does not provide evidence of
abandonment or neglect.
   b.   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railing properly designed and maintained in
accord with State Building Code to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same
shall be kept structurally sound, in good repair, free of defects, and clear of
any obstructions to egress.
   (5)   Windows.
   a.   The window(s) of building(s)/structure(s) of the property shall be
intact and operable and shall be maintained in a way that does not provide
evidence of abandonment or neglect. Windows of buildings shall be fully
supplied and maintained with glass window panes or with a substitute approved
by the Town Code Enforcement Officer. Any improvements must be done in a manner
and with materials that will compliment to original character of the building
and surrounding properties. Such glass or substitute material shall be without
cracks, holes or missing panes, and shall be properly glazed. Screens, if
provided, shall be securely fastened to the window and maintained in good
repair. The boarding-up of windows is not an approved substitute material
unless provided for within Section 9-1209 Subsection (3) of this Article.
   b.   All windows shall be free of any evidence of old signage, stickers and/
or decals. Windows must be regularly cleaned in a manner as not to appear
dirty, filthy, or un-kept. Broken or loose mullions shall be replaced.
   (6)   Exterior doors and frames. Exterior doors of commercial building(s)/
structure(s) located on property, whether vacant or occupied, shall be
maintained so that they fit reasonably well within their frames so as to
substantially prevent rain and wind from entering the building. All doors shall
be free of any evidence of old stickers and/or decals. Doors with glass must be
regularly cleaned in a manner as not to appear dirty, filthy, or un-kept. Door
windows and glass doors shall be in good repair in accordance to Section 9-1205
(5).
   (7)   Storefronts and facades. The storefronts and facades of building(s)/
structure(s) shall be maintained in a way that does not provide evidence of
abandonment or neglect. The interiors, when visible to passerby through
storefront windows, shall be maintained in a way that does not exhibit evidence
of abandonment. Any storage within the building(s)/structures(s) shall be
concealed by means of storefront and/or window decor, the addition of displays,
opaque curtains, etc. The spray painting, frosting of, or covering of windows
with newspaper or other forms of construction paper material is not any
acceptable means by which an owner of property may conceal that which is
within.
   (8)   Business identification signs. All business identification signs
located on any commercial property and attached to a building structure shall
be maintained so that they are structurally sound, in good repair, and properly
anchored. Evidence of previous signage such as adhesive, hooks, or hangers
shall be removed. No dilapidated signs or that which is found to be in
disrepair or unsafe shall be allowed to remain on a building structure. New
signage may be placed on a building structure but must conform to the Sign
Ordinance of the Town of Canton. No business identification language, sign or
window ads shall be painted on a building's windows using window markers.
Within sixty (60) days of a property becoming vacant all signs, attached or
otherwise, shall be removed from the building structure.
   (9)   Yards, sidewalks and alleys. The yard(s), sidewalk(s) and alley(s)
adjacent to the property shall be maintained in a way that does not provide
evidence of abandonment or neglect. Premises and exterior property on which a
building is located shall be maintained free from grass, weeds, trash, and
refuse. Paved driveways and parking areas with 50% or greater weed penetration
shall be made weed free.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1206 Commercial property interior maintenance standards.
   (a)   Structural.
   (1)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or other
structural members shall not list, bow, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
   (2)   Floors and roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (4)   Interior steps, stairways, railings and landings shall be maintained
in such condition that they will not fall or collapse.
   (b)   Plumbing, electrical and supplied facilities.
   (1)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the State
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
   (2)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, panels, equipment and wiring
shall be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electric Code.
   (3)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this Article or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1207 Registration requirements for vacant properties.
   (a)   Any vacant commercial property located within the Town's C-1 Central
Business, C-2 General Business, C-3 Neighborhood Business, C-4 Highway
Business, I-1 Light Industrial, and I-2 Heavy Industrial Business Districts and
its Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) must be registered by the owner with
the Town, either 1) of the owner of vacant property's own accord before
receiving a Notice of Registration Requirement, or 2) within thirty (30) days
of receiving a Notice of Registration Requirement from the Town of Canton. The
Registration Fee for a vacant commercial property is $50.00 and shall be
renewed annually.
   (b)   The Town will send a Notification of Registration Requirement to the
owner of record of properties that exhibit evidence of abandonment, neglect, or
that are noticeably vacant. The owner shall register property within ten (10)
days by completing and submitting to the Town a Vacant Commercial Property
Registration Form, unless owner can provide clear and convincing evidence to
the Town Code Enforcement Officer within such time period that the property is
not vacant.
   (c)   The registration shall contain:
   (1)   The name of the owner (corporation or individual);
   (2)   The direct street/office mailing address of the owner and P.O. Box (if
applicable); and
   (3)   A direct contact name and phone number.
   (d)   Any changes in the information in C1-C3 of this Section shall be
reported to the Town within thirty (30) days of such change.
   (e)   Registration must be renewed annually.
   (f)   Vacant properties shall remain subject to the annual registration,
maintenance, and security requirements of this Article as long as they remain
vacant.
   (g)   Once the property is no longer vacant or is sold, the owner must
provide written proof to Town of occupancy or sale.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1208 Security requirements for vacant properties.
   Vacant properties subject to this Article shall comply with the following
security requirements.
   (1)   The property shall be maintained in a secure manner so as not to be
accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (2)    This includes, without limitation, the closure and locking of
windows, doors (including but not limited to walk-through, sliding, and
garage), gates, pet doors, and any other such opening of such size that it may
allow a child to access the interior of the property or structure(s).
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1209 Boarding-up structures.
   It is the intention of the Town to limit the number of boarded-up windows,
doors and other openings within commercial districts. The boarding-up of
structures not only poses several concerns related to health, safety, and
welfare but also increases the risk of loss to vacant properties as a result of
damage from fire, flooding, or other hazards. The Town may issue a Boarding-Up
Permit in certain circumstances.
   (1)   Boarding-up Permit. No person, firm, association or corporation shall
erect, install, place, or maintain boards over the doors, windows, or other
opening of any building or structure or otherwise secure such opening by a
means other than the conventional method used in the original construction and
design of the building or structure without first obtaining a valid Boarding-Up
Permit from the Town of Canton, in accordance with this subsection of Chapter
8. Any property with boards existing at the time of the adoption of this
Article will have sixty (60) days from the date of its adoption to submit an
application to the Town of Canton for a permit to continue to board.
   (2)   Issuance of a permit. The Town of Canton may issue a Boarding-Up
Permit only upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
   a.   Submission of a completed Boarding-Up Permit Application by the owner
of the property or his/her authorized representative, including the following
information:
   1.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner;
   2.   Name, address and telephone number of any local agent of the owner;
   3.   Tax parcel identification number of the premises on which the building/
structure is located;
   4.   Common address of the building; and
   5.   Other information as may be required by the Town.
   b.   Payment of the required permit fee by the owner of the property or his/
her authorized representative.
   c.   Submission of a written action plan by the owner of the property or
his/her authorized representative specifying:
   1.   Length of time the owner expects the boarding-up to continue;
   2.   Proposed plan to secure or board-up the structure, including a detailed
description regarding the manner and materials; and
   3.   Detailed description and affirmation that the property owner intends to
replace boarding with windows containing glass panes or with a substitute
material approved by the Town Code Enforcement Officer in accordance to Section
9 -1205(5).
   d.   The Town may conduct an inspection of the subject property to ensure
that the building is boarded-up in accordance with the plan approved by the
Town Code Enforcement Officer.
   (3)   Permit cost. The cost of a Boarding-Up Permit shall $50.00.
   (4)   Regulations.
   a.   A Boarding-Up Permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall authorize
the boarding-up or other securing of a building or structure for a period, not
to exceed ninety (90) days.
   b.   All boarded openings shall be painted with a minimum of two (2) coats
of exterior paint, which is of a color compatible with the exterior color of
the building or structure located on the property.
   c.   Any boarding-up of a building or structure shall be done in a manner
compliant with all applicable building codes.
   d.   Windows broken as a result of damage caused by vandalism, theft, or act
of nature shall be boarded-up immediately and in accordance with the
regulations set forth in this Article, so as to protect public health and
welfare.
   (5)   Exemptions. No Boarding-Up Permit fee shall be required to board-up a
building for up to thirty (30) days in the event of a permitted renovation or
temporary emergency situation, including but not limited to damage caused by
fire, vandalism, theft, or act of nature. In the event an emergency situation
requires a building(s)/structure(s) to be boarded-up for more than thirty (30)
days, it is the responsibility of the owner of the property or his/her
authorized representative to apply for a Boarding-Up Permit.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1210 Burned building(s)/structure(s).
   (a)   Whenever any building or structure is fully or partially burned, the
owner or person in control shall, within sixty (60) days after completion of
the scene investigation by the Fire Department, County Fire Marshall, and/or
insurer of the property, remove from the premises all refuse, debris, and all
charred and partially burned lumber and material.
   (b)   If such building or structure is burned to such an extent that repair
costs would exceed 50% of the fair market value it is rendered incapable of
being repaired, the owner or person in control shall, within sixty (60) days of
conclusion of investigation obtain a demolition permit and remove from the
premises all the remaining portion of the building or structure including the
foundation within (60) days of issuance of the permit or a mutually agreed-
upon, reasonable timeframe between the Town and owner.
   (c)   If the building or structure is to be repaired a building permit shall
be obtained and work shall begin within sixty (60) days of conclusion of
investigation or a mutually agreed-upon, reasonable timeframe between the Town
and owner. Work shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date a permit is obtained or a mutually agreed upon timeframe between the
Town and owner.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1211 Buildings for lease or sale.
   The listing or advertising of a building or structure for lease or sale does
not relieve the property owner from meeting those standards which are set forth
within this Article.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1212 Inspections.
   (a)   Whenever it appears to the Code Enforcement officer that any
commercial building is in violation of one or more provisions of this Article,
s/he shall have the authority to inspect said properties subject to this
Article for compliance. The Code Enforcement Officer shall have authority to
enter upon premises for the purpose of inspecting the same for compliance with
this Article, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner that will do the
least possible inconvenience to the property owner and customers.
   (b)   All non-residential (i.e. commercial) property owners shall cooperate
with Town staff in the inspection process and allow access to said property/
building. If a building code violation is realized during the inspection
process, Town of Canton staff (Code Enforcement Officer, Town Manager or other
designee) have the duty, and obligation to report such violations to the
Haywood County Building Inspections Department. This may result in additional
remedies being required of the property owner. At any time during the
inspection or subsequent meetings with the property owner to discuss a building
code inspection, Town staff may solicit participation by Haywood County
Building Inspection personnel in an effort to resolve any building code
violations which may exist.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1213 Notice of violation and requirement of hearing.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violations of this
Article, but does not reveal evidence that a building is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue and cause to be
served upon the owner of and parties in interest in the non-residential (i.e.
commercial) building or structure a Notice of Violation. The Notice of
Violation shall clearly state the violations and required corrective action(s)
to be taken to rectify the situation, and set a date for a hearing.
   (1)   A Hearing shall be scheduled before the Code Enforcement Officer and/
or Town Manager at a place within the Town, scheduled not less than ten (10)
business days nor more than thirty (30) business days after the serving of the
Notice of Violation. The owner and any parties in interest shall have the right
to file an answer to the Notice of Violation and to appear in person or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the Notice of
Violation. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The Rules of Evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the Code
Enforcement Officer. Testimony shall be under oath and the owner and parties in
interest shall have the right to cross examine witnesses. During the hearing
those present shall discuss an acceptable Plan of Corrective Action. If
possible, a Plan of Corrective Action shall be agreed upon and reduced to
writing during the hearing. Otherwise, a proposed Plan of Corrective Action
shall be presented by the owner or his agent to the Town within ten (10) days
following the Hearing. There shall not be a uniform timeframe placed on
Corrective Action Plans, but the timeframe shall be reasonable as determined by
the Code Enforcement officer on a case-by-case basis. This Article is intended
to provide a reasonable degree of flexibility in administration so that work
can be done in a quality manner. This Article was formulated to balance the
interests of the property owner with the welfare of the greater community and
adjacent property owner interests.
   (2)   This Plan of Corrective Action must include, but is not limited to, a
description of the work to be done, by whom, and a reasonably specific
schedule. Plans shall be reviewed by the Town Code Enforcement Officer and work
is to commence within thirty (30) days of staff approval. The Plan of
Corrective Action shall be attached and incorporated into an Order to Take
Corrective Action.
   (3)   In any case where the preliminary investigation reveals that a
building at issue appears to be unsafe and especially dangerous to life because
of liability to fire or because of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors,
defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or heating systems, inadequate
means of egress and other causes, the Code Enforcement Officer shall contact
the Haywood County Building Inspector, who shall conduct further proceedings
following the Town of Canton's Minimum Housing Standards (Part 9, Chapter 2 of
this Code) to the extent the same are consistent with the statutory procedures
set forth in G.S. § 160A-439 and the procedures of said statute in the event
the Minimum Housing Standards are inconsistent with G.S. § 160A-439.
Alternatively, the County Building Inspector may utilize the procedures set
forth for building condemnation under the State Building Code as set forth in
G.S. § 160A-426, et. seq.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1214 Service of notice of violations and orders to take corrective
action.
   (a)   Notice of Violations and Orders issued by the Code Enforcement Officer
pursuant to this Article shall be served upon all persons of interest either
personally or by registered or certified mail so long as the means used are
reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When service is made by
registered or certified mail, a copy of the Notice of Violation or Order may
also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is refused, but the regular mail is not returned
by the post office within ten (10) days after the mailing. If regular mail is
used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premise affected.
   (b)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the public officer makes an
affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the
owners or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having
general circulation in the city at least once no later than the time at which
personal service would be required under the provisions of this Part. When
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1215 Nature of corrective actions.
   All corrective actions, as required under this Article G, shall be completed
in accordance with North Carolina Building Codes. Before any work is begun, all
necessary Building Permits must be obtained, as required.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1216 Enforcement and penalties.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or parties in interest to be in
violation of any of the provisions of this Article.
   (b)   Violations are not considered criminal in nature.
   (c)   Any person who violates a provision of this Article or fails to comply
with any order made thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by appeal within
the time fixed herein, shall severally, for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be issued a Civil Penalty Citation in the amount
outlined below in Subsection.
   (d)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation, or authorize its continuance.
   (e)   Penalties for failure to comply:
   (1)   Initial registration. Failure to initially register vacant property
with the Town within the timeframe required is a violation punishable by the
issuance of a civil penalty citation in the amount of $50.00.
   (2)   Annual registration. Failure to register annually a vacant Property is
a violation punishable by the issuance of a civil penalty citation in the
amount of $50.00.
   (3)   Security requirements for vacant properties. Failure to meet security
requirements established within this Article is a violation punishable by the
issuance of a civil penalty citation in the amount of $50.00.
   (4)   Failure to submit Plan. Failure to submit Plan of Corrective Action is
a violation punishable by the issuance of a civil penalty citation in the
amount of $50.00.
   (5)   Failure to begin implementation of Plan. Failure to begin Plan of
Corrective Action within thirty (30) days of approval by staff is a violation
punishable by the immediate issuance of a civil penalty citation in the amount
of $500.00. From that date, if implementation is not begun within fourteen (14)
days, civil penalties will begin accruing at a rate of $250/day each day
thereafter until agreed upon work commences.
   (6)   Failure to complete Plan of Corrective Action and requirements
contained within. When not otherwise specified, failure to meet any stated and
agreed upon corrective actions contained within the Plan of Corrective Action
within ten (10) days of the agreed upon completion date shall constitute a
separate offense, a violation punishable by the issuance of an additional civil
penalty citation in the amount of $250 and $250 each day thereafter unless
documented extenuating circumstances are presented and deemed justifiable by
the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (f)   The Town may seek to recover accrued civil penalties together with all
costs by filing a civil action in the general court of justice in the nature of
a suit to collect a debt.
   (g)   This Article may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (h)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this Article.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1217 Appeal.
   Any person who has received a Notice of Violation/Order for Corrective
Action under this, Article G, may appeal the order to the Board of Adjustment
by giving notice of appeal in writing to the Town of Canton's Code Enforcement
Officer and to the Clerk to the Board within ten (10) days following issuance
of the Notice of Violation/Order for Corrective Action. In the absence of an
appeal to the Board of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of the
Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall be final. The Board of
Adjustment shall hear appeals within a reasonable time after receipt of the
Notice of Appeal and it may modify, affirm or revoke the order. Any person
aggrieved by a decision or order of the Code Enforcement Officer shall have the
remedies provided in G.S. § 160A-446.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1218 Validity.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phase of this Article is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Article which here adopted both in part and
as a whole. The Town Board hereby declares that it would have passed this
Article and each section, subsection, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective
of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1219 Conflict with other provisions.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this Article is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the Town
of Canton, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more
stringent requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety
of the residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina State
Building Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all
alterations, repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of
building made or required pursuant to this Article.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1220 Amendments.
   The Town Board may from time to time amend, supplement, or change the
provisions and requirements of this Article. Any such amendment shall be by
ordinance of the Town Board.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
Section 9-1221 Preemption.
   Except as specifically preempted by G.S. §§ 160A-441, et. seq., 160A-439 or
Town Ordinances subsequently promulgated pursuant to G.S. § 160A-439, et. seq.,
this Article shall apply to all vacant and occupied commercial properties in
the C-1 Central Business, C-2 General Business, C-3 Neighborhood Business, C-
4 Highway Business, I-1 Light Industrial, and I-2 Heavy Industrial Business
Districts within the Town of Canton and its ETJ Extra Territorial Jurisdiction
to the extent applicable by law.
(Ord. of 8/27/15)
CHAPTER 2
Minimum Housing Standards
Section
9-2001   Finding; purpose.
Section
9-2002   Definitions.
Section
9-2003   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units.
Section
9-2004   Minimum standards for structural condition.
Section
9-2005   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities.
Section
9-2006   Minimum standards for ventilation.
Section
9-2007   Minimum standards for space, use and location.
Section
9-2008   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance.
Section
9-2009   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestations.
Section
9-2010   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions.
Section
9-2011   Responsibilities of owners and occupants.
Section
9-2012   Duties of building inspector.
Section
9-2013   Powers of building inspector.
Section
9-2014   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants.
Section
9-2015   Procedure for enforcement.
Section
9-2016   Methods of service of complaints or orders.
Section
9-2017   In rem action by inspector; placarding.
Section
9-2018   Costs, a lien on premises.
Section
9-2019   Alternative remedies.
Section
9-2020   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals.
Section
9-2021   Conflict with other provisions.
Section
9-2022   Violations; penalty.
Section
9-2023   Severability.
Section 9-2001 Finding; purpose.
   (a)   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that there
exist in the Town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and
detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the Town.
   (b)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the Town as authorized by Part 6 of Article 19, Chapter 160A of the General
Statutes, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of
fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human
habitation, as expressly authorized by G.S. 160A-444.
Section 9-2002 Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   (1)   Basement shall mean a portion of a building which is located partly
underground, having direct access to light and air from windows located above
the level of the adjoining ground.
   (2)   Cellar shall mean a portion of a building located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   (3)   Deteriorated shall mean that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation
and can be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50 percent of
its value, as determined by finding of the inspector.
   (4)   Dilapidated shall mean that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation
and cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50 percent of
its value, as determined by finding of the inspector.
   (5)   Dwelling shall mean any building which is wholly or partly used or
intended to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that
temporary housing as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
   (6)   Dwelling Unit shall mean any room or group of rooms located within a
dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   (7)   Extermination shall mean the control and elimination of insects,
rodents or other pests by eliminating their harborage places: by removing or
making inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning,
spraying, fumigating, trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest
elimination methods approved by the inspector.
   (8)   Garbage shall mean the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   (9)   Habitable room shall mean a room or enclosed floor space used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding
bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or
communicating corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   (10)   Infestation shall mean the presence, within or around a dwelling, of
any insects, rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to
the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   (11)   Inspector shall mean a building inspector of the Town or any agent of
the inspector who is authorized by the inspector.
   (12)   Multiple dwelling shall mean any dwelling containing more than two
(2) dwelling units.
   (13)   Occupant shall mean any person over one (1) year of age, living,
sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit
or rooming unit.
   (14)   Operator shall mean any person who has charge, care or control of a
building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   (15)   Owner shall mean any person who alone, jointly, or severally with
others:
   a.   Shall have title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
   b.   Shall have charge. care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit, as
owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person
thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted, pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he were the owner.
   (16)   Plumbing shall mean and include all of the following supplied
facilities and equipment: Gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes,
mechanical garbage disposal units (mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bath tubs, shower baths,
installed clothes washing machines, catch basin, drains, vents and any other
similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas
lines.
   (17)   Public Authority shall mean the Town Housing Authority or any officer
who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the Town or
of Haywood County or the State of North Carolina relating to health, fire,
building regulations or other activities concerning dwellings in the Town.
   (18)   Rooming unit shall mean any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for
cooking or eating purposes.
   (19)   Rooming house shall mean any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling
containing one (1) or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or
operator to three (3) or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or
daughter, mother or father or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   (20)   Rubbish shall mean combustible and noncombustible waste materials,
except garbage and ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin
cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   (21)   Supplied shall mean paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the
control of, the owner or operator.
   (22)   Temporary housing shall mean any tent, trailer or other structure
used for human shelter which is designed to be transportable and Which is not
attached to the ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the
same premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (23)   Unfit for human habitation shall mean that conditions exist in a
dwelling which violate or do not comply with one (1) or more of the minimum
standards of fitness or one (1) or more of the requirements established by this
chapter.
   (24)   Meaning of certain words. Whenever the words "dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, rooming unit, premises" are used in this chapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
Section 9-2003 Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held out for
use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of sections
9-2004 through
9-2009 of this chapter. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to
another for occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling
unit which does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for
human habitation and all of the requirements of sections
9-2004 through
9-2009 of this chapter.
Section 9-2004 Minimum standards for structural condition.
   (a)   Walls, partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle; and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated, or damaged; and shall not have holes or cracks which
might admit rodents.
   (b)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (c)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (d)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or appurtenances
shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fall or collapse.
   (e)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (f)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness; and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   (g)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight.
   (h)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (i)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
Section 9-2005 Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities.
   (a)   Plumbing system.
   (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and to
the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
   (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less that a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
   (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the Town Plumbing
Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
   (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (b)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with either (1) or (2) below.
   (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which
it is connected with a minimum temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit measured at
a point three (3) feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
   (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating system
is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances
may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature
of 70 degrees Fahrenheit measured three (3) feet above the floor during
ordinary winter conditions.
   (c)   Electrical system.
   (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
(2) floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in such
manner as determined by the Town Electric Code. There shall be installed in
every bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
(1) supplied ceiling, or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such
habitable room shall contain at least three (3) floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
   (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
   (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained in
a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used; and installed in
accordance with the State Electrical Code (Volume IV of the State Building
Code).
Section 9-2006 Minimum standards for ventilation.
   (a)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one (1) window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10 percent of the
floor area of the room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a
window or any room and the light-obstructing structures are located less than
five (5) feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling
of the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of the room, the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15
percent of the total floor area of the room.
   (b)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one (1)
window or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will
adequately ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every
habitable room shall be equal to at least 45 percent of the minimum window area
size or minimum skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other
approved, equivalent ventilation.
   (c)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
Section 9-2007 Minimum standards for space, use and location.
   (a)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at lent the minimum room
size in each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code
(Volume I-B of the State Building Code).
   (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three (3) occupants, and at
least 75 square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional
occupant.
   (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by one (1) occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet
of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
(1) occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (b)   Ceiling height. At least one-half (1/2) of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not low than seven (7) feet and
six (6) inches.
   (c)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10 percent of the required habitable floor
area. The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less
than four and one-half (4-1/2) feet shall not be considered as part of the
floor area computing the total area of the room to determine maximum
permissible occupancy.
   (d)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (e)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
   (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
   (2)   The total window area, total openable window area, and ceiling height
are equal to those required for habitable rooms;
   (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is entirely
above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or windows
face a stairwell, window well, or accessway.
Section 9-2008 Minimum standards for safe and Unitary maintenance.
   (a)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall, and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of
moisture or the weather.
   (b)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (c)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door, and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight, and rodent
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (d)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch, and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (e)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (f)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment. or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (g)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (h)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (i)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code (Volume I-B of the
State Building Code).
Section 9-2009 Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and
infestations.
   (a)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies, and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall have supplied and installed screens and a self-closing
device; and every window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used
or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be supplied with screens
installed.
   (b)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (c)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one (1) dwelling unit shall be responsible
for such extermination whenever his dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a. dwelling
in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two (2) or more
of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (d)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by Town ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of
such dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (e)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit or an incinerator unit, to be approved by the inspector, in the
structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved
outside garbage can as required by Town ordinances.
Section 9-2010 Minimum standards applicable to roaring horses; exceptions.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following subsections:
   (1)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one (1)
water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each four (4) rooms within a rooming house wherever the facilities
are shared. All the facilities shall be located within the residence building
served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and
shall be not more than one (1) story removed from any of the persons sharing
the facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied
with hot and cold water at all times. The required facilities shall not be
located in a cellar.
   (2)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one (1) occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one (1)
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (3)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and he
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (4)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin,
and bathtub or shower required by subsection (1) of this section shall be
located within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford
privacy and are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible
from a common hall without going outside the rooming house or through any other
room therein.
Section 9-2011 Responsibilities of owners and occupants.
   (a)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two (2) or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (b)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and
premises thereof which he occupies and controls.
   (c)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner shall be
responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (d)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (e)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
Section 9-2012 Duties of building inspector.
   The building inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. It shall be the duty of the building inspector:
   (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the Town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to the dwellings and dwelling
units;
   (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed; and
   (4)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
   (5)   In accordance with provisions contained in G.S. 160A-424 and chapter 2
of Part 9 of this code:
   a.   It shall be the policy of the Board of Aldermen of the town to cause
the Building Inspector(s) to periodically inspect property, especially
residential rental property for unsafe, unsanitary, hazardous, or unlawful
conditions. Such inspections shall be made on a random basis or when the
Inspector has reason to believe a property or structure is not in compliance
with law(s) or ordinance(s) or when the Inspector or town receives a written or
verbal complaint.
   b.   Unless the property owner or lawful occupant gives permission to
inspect, the Inspector shall draw an Administrative Warrant from a judge or
magistrate allowing the town to carry out inspections.
   c.   It shall further be the policy of the town to direct communications,
warnings, and enforcement activity to the owners of the inspected property.
Section 9-2013 Powers of building inspector.
   The building inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the Town in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (3)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in accordance with law and in
such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (4)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents, and employees
as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
Section 9-2014 Inspections; duty of owners and occupants.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the inspector is hereby authorized to
enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling
units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every dwelling,
dwelling unit, or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the
inspector free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, and its
premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of the inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of the
dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making the repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Section 9-2015 Procedure for enforcement.
   (a)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the inspector by a public authority or by at least five (5)
residents of the Town charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, or whenever it appears to the inspector, upon inspection,
that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation; he shall, if
his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges, issue and
cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwelling
or dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the inspector at a place therein fixed, not less
than 10 nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. The owner or
any party in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint
and to appear in person or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time
fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least
one (1) of the persons signing a petition relating to the dwelling. Any person
desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the
matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in hearings before the inspector.
   (b)   Procedure after hearing. After the notice and hearing, the inspector
shall state in writing his determination whether such dwelling or dwelling unit
is unfit for human habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or
dilapidated.
   (1)   If the inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of the
determination; and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter, and improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not to exceed 90
days. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and close the
dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alterations and improvements have
been made.
   (2)   If the inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he shall
state in writing his findings of fact to support the determination, and shall
issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and
requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve such dwelling or
dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness established by
this chapter, or else vacate and remove or demolish the same within a specified
period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (c)   Failure to comply with order.
   (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the inspector to repair,
alter or improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner of
a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the inspector to
vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the inspector shall submit to the Board at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing the Town attorney to petition the superior court for an
order directing the owner to comply with the order of the inspector, as
authorized by G.S. 160A-446(g).
   (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an order of the
inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted as provided in the preceding paragraph (1), the
inspector shall submit to the Board an ordinance ordering the inspector to
cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, improved or
vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as provided in the original order
of the inspector, and pending the removal or demolition, to placard the
dwelling as provided by G.S. 160A-443 and section
9-2017 of this chapter.
   (d)   Appeals from orders of inspector.
   (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the inspector may be taken by
any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the inspector shall be taken
within 10 days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and
shall be taken by filing with the inspector and with the Housing Appeals Board-
Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds
upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the
inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the
record upon which the decision appealed from was made. When appeal is from a
decision of the inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do
any act, his decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When
any appeal is from a decision of the inspector requiring the person aggrieved
to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement
until the hearing by the Board, unless the inspector certifies to the Board,
after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a
suspension of his requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property,
in which case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining
order, which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one (1)
day's written notice to the inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record
upon petition made pursuant to G.S. 160A-446(f) and subsection (e) of this
section.
   (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all appeals,
shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its decision within
a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The
Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or
order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in its opinion
ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of
the inspector; but the concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board shall
be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the inspector. The
Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case where there
are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of carrying out
the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of the ordinance
to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the ordinance
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
   (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 1 S days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (e)   Petition to superior court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the
inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. 160A-
446(f).
Section 9-2016 Methods of service of complaints or orders.
   Complaints or orders issued by the inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the whereabouts of
such persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the inspector in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the inspector shall make an affidavit to
that effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon such person may be
made by publishing the same once each week for two (2) successive weeks in a
newspaper, printed and published and circulating in the Town. Where service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
Section 9-2017 In rem action by inspector; placarding.
   (a)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the Board of an ordinance authorizing and
directing him to do so, as provided by GA. 160A-443(5) and section
9-201 S(c) of this chapter, the inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling
or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed
and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Board and shall
cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling or dwelling unit a
placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (b)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. 160A-
445(3).
Section 9-2018 Costs, a lien on premises.
As provided by G.S. 160A-446(6), the amount of the cost of any repairs,
alterations, improvements, vacating and closing, removal or demolition, caused
to be made or done by the inspector pursuant to section
9-2017 of this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the
cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be
enforced and the costs collected as provided by Article 10, Chapter 160A of the
General Statutes.
Section 9-2019 Alternative remedies.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the Town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
ordinance by criminal process as authorized by G.S. 14-4 and section
9-2020 of this chapter, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall
not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or
in other ordinances or laws.
Section 9-2020 Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the inspector
pursuant to section
9-2015(d) of this chapter shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the
times and places of its meetings; to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any
other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of
its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by section
9-2015(d) and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
Section 9-2021 Conflict with other provisions.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the Town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the Town shall prevail.
Section 9-2022 Violations; penalty.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect, refuse to repair, alter, improve the same, vacate and close, and
remove or demolish the same, upon order of the inspector duly made and served
as herein provided, within the time specified in the order; and each day that
any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit, with respect to which an order has been
issued pursuant to section
9-2015 of this chapter, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration, improvement or its
vacation and closing; and each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (b)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 14-4.
Section 9-2023 Severability.
   If any provision of this chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be
deemed a separate, independent provision and the holding shall not affect the
validity of any other provision hereof, and to that end, the provisions of this
chapter are hereby declared to be severable.
CHAPTER 3
Subdivision Regulations
Historical Citation: The provisions of this chapter are derived from an
ordinance adopted on April 12, 1977. Chapter was repealed and replaced in its
entirety by an ordinance adopted on July 28, 2022.
ARTICLE A General Provisions
Section
9-3001   Short title.
Section
9-3002   Authority and effective date.
Section
9-3003   Jurisdiction.
Section
9-3004   Purpose and intent.
Section
9-3005   Applicability.
Section
9-3006   Validity and severability.
ARTICLE B Procedures
Section
9-3007   General provisions.
Section
9-3008   Subdivisions and land developments.
Section
9-3009   Applications for subdivision and land development.
Section
9-3010   Development application process.
Section
9-3011   Subdivision and land development review process.
Section
9-3012   Plan and plat requirements.
Section
9-3013   Administrative procedures.
Section
9-3014   Legislative procedures - developer agreements.
Section
9-3015   Performance guarantees.
Section
9-3016   Vested rights and permit choice.
Section
9-3017   Exceptions and variances.
ARTICLE C Improvement Standards
Section
9-3018   General requirements for development.
Section
9-3019   Improvements beyond the town’s extraterritorial limits.
ARTICLE D Design Standards
Section
9-3020   General standards.
Section
9-3021   Streets and rights-of- way.
Section
9-3022   Driveway and access standards.
Section
9-3023   Pedestrian facility standards.
Section
9-3024   Utility standards.
Section
9-3025   Easements.
Section
9-3026   Dedication of stormwater infrastructure.
Section
9-3027   Landscaping and open space standards.
Section
9-3028   Cluster mailbox units.
Section
9-3029   Lighting.
ARTICLE E Common Ownership
Section
9-3030   Ownership and maintenance of open space and preserved areas.
Section
9-3031   Property owner’s association.
ARTICLE F Enforcement
Section
9-3032   Notice to comply.
Section
9-3033   Stop work orders.
Section
9-3034   Revocation of permits.
Section
9-3035   Remedies.
ARTICLE G Definitions
Section
9-3036   Word usage.
Section
9-3037   Definitions of terms.
Appendix A:   Certifications.
ARTICLE A
General Provisions
Section 9-3001 Short title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as, "The Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance of Town of Canton, North Carolina" and may be referred to
herein as the "Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance," or "this
Ordinance."
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3002 Authority and effective date.
   The Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton pursuant to the authority
conferred by an act of the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina
(General Statutes, Chapter 160D, Article 8) does hereby ordain and enact into
law these articles and sections.
   This Chapter is effective as of July 28, 2022, and shall repeal and replace
the Subdivision Regulations, adopted originally on April 12, 1977, and revised
on September 15, 1987, September 14, 1993, and June 23, 2021.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3003 Jurisdiction.
   This Chapter shall govern all subdivisions and development of land within
the corporate limits of the Town and extraterritorial jurisdiction as now or
hereafter established.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3004 Purpose and intent.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish rules and regulations,
procedures and standards for the land development and the subdivision of real
estate within the corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
Town to, among other things:
   (1)   Ensure proper legal description, identification, monumentation and
recording of real estate boundaries;
   (2)   Establish design standards for the orderly, efficient development of
land;
   (3)   Provide safe and convenient access and circulation of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic;
   (4)   Provide suitable building sites which drain properly and protect
natural resources;
   (5)   Ensure the safe, adequate, and timely installation of utilities and
improvements;
   (6)   Conserve and protect the physical, economic resources of the Town and
its environs;
   (7)   Ensure conformance of land development with the provisions of Chapter
4, Zoning, Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes, guidelines of
the Future Land Use Plan of the Town of Canton, and other development-related
local, regional, and federal regulations and plans;
   (8)   Promote and protect the health, safety, and welfare of all citizens of
Canton; and
   (9)   Provide uniform procedure and application standards for the
subdivision and development of land.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3005 Applicability.
   (a)   This chapter is applicable to all development of land, including but
not limited to divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions when any one (1) or more of those
divisions are created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether
immediate or future). This chapter is also applicable to all divisions of land
involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets.
However, the following divisions of land shall not be included within the
definition of subdivision nor be subject to the regulations herein:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the Town of
Canton.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten (10) acres where
no street right- of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors.
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two (2) acres into not more than three (3) lots, where no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to
or exceed the standards of the Town of Canton, as contained herein.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under Chapter 29
of the General Statutes.
   (b)   Whenever the provisions of any other statute or ordinance require a
greater standard or impose more restrictive standards than are required by any
regulations made under authority of this Chapter, the provisions of such
statute shall govern.
   (c)   This Chapter does not repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or
interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those
specifically or explicitly repealed by this Chapter, or any restrictions placed
upon property by covenant, deed, or other private agreement unless
objectionable hereto.
   (d)   Provisions in
Chapter 4, Zoning, providing for varying design standards shall not be
considered in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter. To the extent that
a conflict may exist between the provisions of this Chapter and those of
Chapter 4, Zoning, the provisions of
Chapter 4 shall apply.
   (e)   From and after the effective date of this Chapter, any subdivision or
land development for which application is made shall be in conformity with this
Chapter and all standards and specifications adopted as part of such ordinance.
   (f)   No parcel containing any deed restriction or previous plan restriction
forbidding subdivision of that parcel may be further subdivided.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3006 Validity and severability.
   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the Board of Aldermen that:
   (a)   If a court of competent jurisdiction declares any provisions of this
Chapter to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, the effect of such
decision shall be limited to those provisions which are expressly stated in the
decision to be invalid or ineffective, and all other provisions of this Chapter
shall continue to be separately and fully effective.
   (b)   If a court of competent jurisdiction finds the application of any
provision or provisions of this Chapter to any lot, building or other structure
or tract of land to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, the effect
of such decision shall be limited to the person, property or situation
immediately involved in the controversy, and the application of any such
provision to other persons, property or situations shall not be affected.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
ARTICLE B
Procedures
Section 9-3007 General provisions.
   In order to establish an orderly process to develop land within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Canton, consistent with standard development
practices and terminology, this Chapter provides a clear and comprehensible
development process that is both fair and equitable to all interests including
the applicants, affected neighbors, the Administrator, Staff, and related
agencies, and the Town Board of Aldermen.
   (a)   No construction to commence without permit. No land shall be used or
occupied, and no structures shall be erected, moved, extended, or enlarged, nor
shall any timbering, clearing, and grubbing, or filling of any lot for the
construction of any building be initiated until the Administrator has issued an
appropriate development approval which will certify that the proposed work is
in conformity with the provisions of this Chapter.
   (b)   Development approvals run with the land. Unless provided otherwise by
law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens, and obligations created by
development approvals made pursuant to this Article attach to and run with the
land.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3008 Subdivisions and land developments.
   (a)   General requirements.
      (1)   Compliance required. Within the jurisdiction of this Article, no
land development or subdivision shall be made, platted, or recorded for any
purpose, nor shall parcels resulting from such subdivision be sold or offered
for sale unless such subdivision meets all the requirements of this Article and
applicable development regulations contained in this Article.
      (2)   Final Plat approval required.
         a.   No Final Plat of any land development or subdivision within the
Town of Canton shall be filed or recorded by the County Register of Deeds until
it shall have been prepared, submitted to, reviewed, and approved by the
appropriate authority, in accordance with this Article, and such approval
entered in writing on the plat.
         b.   No street shall be accepted and maintained by the Town, nor shall
any street lighting, water, or sewer be extended to or connected with any
subdivision of land nor shall any permit be issued by an administrative agent
or department of the Town, for the construction of any building or other
improvement requiring a permit, upon any land concerning which a plat is
required to be approved unless and until the Final Plat has been approved by
the Administrator and recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
         c.   Filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision not having the
approval of the appropriate authority, shall be punishable as provided by
Article F.
      (3)   Exempt subdivisions. Any plat of property exempted from the
regulations of this chapter (Section
9-3005) shall be certified as exempt by the Administrator or, in the limited
circumstances specified in G.S. 47-30.f.(11), a professional land surveyor
prior to such plat being recorded. Such plat is not exempt from any zoning,
water supply watershed, or other local ordinances. Any exemption from the
regulations of this chapter shall not be deemed an exemption from any other
applicable ordinance.
      (4)    Improvements/performance guarantees. Before Final Plat approval,
each land development and/or subdivision shall either contain the improvements
specified in this Article and all conditions of approval or a satisfactory
performance guarantee shall have been posted with the Town pursuant to Section
9-3015. The improvements shall be installed in accordance with the requirements
of this Article and paid for by the subdivider unless other means of financing
are specifically allowed within the requirements of Section
9-3015 and paid for by the subdivider. The land shall be dedicated and reserved
in each subdivision as specified in Article E. Each subdivision shall adhere to
the minimum standards of design established by this Chapter.
      (5)   Limitation. No portion of land that has been the subject of Minor
Subdivision activity shall be the subject of additional Minor Subdivision
activity for a period of two years from the most recent Minor Subdivision,
except that additional Minor Subdivision activity may be considered in
accordance with the review procedure for Major Subdivisions if such activity is
proposed within a phase of a previously approved Major Subdivision that had
been clearly reserved for future development on a properly approved and
recorded Final Plat. This shall also apply to proposals for the creation of
condominium lots. This shall not prevent the recombination and subsequent re-
subdivision of parcels recently the subject of a Minor Subdivision.
      (6)   Penalties for selling lots in an unapproved subdivision. The owner
or agent of the owner of any land to be subdivided within the area of
jurisdiction of this chapter who transfers or sells or agrees to sell such land
by reference to or exhibition of or by any other use of a plat of a subdivision
of such land before such plat has been approved by the applicable authority and
recorded by the register of deeds, shall be in violation of this Chapter and
subject to the regulations of Article F. The description of the land by metes
and bounds in the instrument of transfer shall not exempt the transaction from
these penalties. Such transfer, sale, or agreement may be enjoined by
appropriate action.
      (7)   Effect of plat approval on status of dedication, acceptance. The
effect of plat approval on the status of dedications is as follows:
         a.   The approval of a plat shall not be deemed to constitute or
affect an acceptance by the public for maintenance purposes of the dedication
of any road, ground, or other improvements shown upon the plat.
         b.   Acceptance of such dedications shall be only by resolution of the
Board of Aldermen or appropriate action by the State Department of
Transportation. The Board of Aldermen shall consider such resolutions only on a
determination that any required improvements have been properly installed and
all applicable conditions met, as set out in this Chapter.
      (8)   Effect of subdivision regulations on naming streets. It shall be
unlawful for any person, in laying out any new street or road, to name such
street or road on any plat, by any marking, or in any deed or instrument
without first getting the approval of the appropriate authority. Any person
violating this subsection shall be subject to enforcement procedures as
provided in Article F.
      (9)   Phased development. If an applicant proposes that a subdivision or
land development will be constructed in phases, the following procedure shall
apply:
         a.   A Master Plan showing the entire proposed subdivision or land
development and the phases of subdivision or land development, proposed
density, proposed type and location of utilities, and proposed development
timetable shall be submitted to the Administrator for staff review. Approval of
a Master Plan by Staff as part of the Preliminary Plat application process for
a subdivision shall not constitute approval of the Preliminary Plat nor shall
such approval of a Master Plan be considered as an acceptance of a Preliminary
Plat, in whole or in part.
         b.   No Master Plan shall be filed as part of a Site Plan or
Preliminary Plat unless it includes at least one phase of a multi-phase
development intended for immediate development or constitutes the Master Plan
for the entire development intended to be developed immediately.
         c.   Subdividers of phased developments are hereby put on notice that
the terms and conditions of the Town's ordinances will change from time to
time. In addition to any rights conferred by G.S. 143-755 and 160D-108 plans
submitted to for review in accordance with Chapter 4, Zoning, shall be deemed
to have a vested right pursuant to North Carolina General Statutes to continue
under the terms and conditions of the ordinance as written on the date said
plans were deemed complete.
         d.   Each phase of subdivision shall be preceded by submission and
approval of a Preliminary Plat. Each phase of a land development shall be
preceded by submission and approval of a Site Plan.
         e.   As each phase of the subdivision or land development with the
dedication of public utilities is completed, a final as-built plan and Final
Plat must be submitted, approved for that phase, and recorded, prior to the
sale or conveyance of any lot in that phase.
   (b)   Exempted subdivisions and expedited subdivision reviews. The following
divisions of land are either exempt or subject to different submittal and
review processes. The Final Plats for the following, shall meet the drafting
requirements contained in Section
9-3010 and
3011.E. and bear the appropriate certificates.
      (1)   The division of land contained in Section
9-3005 shall be exempt and not subject to the subdivision or development
regulations prescribed within this Chapter.
      (2)   Expedited reviews. Only a plat for recordation (Final Plat) is
required for the division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership if
all the following criteria are met:
         a.   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under Section
9-3005(a)(2).
         b.   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided
under this subsection in the ten (10) years prior to division.
         c.   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five (5) acres.
         d.   After division, no more than three (3) lots result from the
division.
         e.   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
            1.   All lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulations, if any.
            2.   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable
zoning
requirements if any.
            3.   A permanent means of ingress and egress are recorded for each
lot.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3009 Applications for subdivision and land development.
   (a)   Application required.
      (1)   Applications for development approvals may be made by the
landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase or
lease land with the permission of the landowner, or an authorized agent of the
landowner.
      (2)   All application packets for development approval shall be submitted
to the Administrator, including their application, application fee, all
appropriate documentation, and the plan sets in accordance with the
requirements of this Section and the Fee Schedule adopted by the Town Board of
Aldermen.
         a.   Two (2) electronic copies of each completed application packet
shall be submitted in a .pdf format to the Administrator. One shall be
submitted via email, and one shall be delivered in-person to the Town building
with the required application fee.
         b.   Paper copies of the completed application packet shall be
submitted, if requested by the Administrator.
   (b)   Completeness review.
      (1)   Completeness determination. Applicants shall submit applications to
the Administrator at least forty-five (45) days prior to the Board meeting at
which the application shall be heard. Until an application is determined to be
complete in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, an application
has not been submitted.
      Upon receiving a development application, the Administrator shall, within
ten (10) business days, determine whether the application is complete or
incomplete. A complete application is one that:
         a.   Contains all information and materials required by this Chapter
for submittal of the applicable type of application, and in sufficient detail,
format, and readability for the Administrator to evaluate the application for
compliance with applicable review standards; and
         b.   Is accompanied by the fee established for the applicable type of
application.
      (2)   Application incomplete.
         a.   On determining that the application is incomplete, the
Administrator shall, within ten (10) business days following submittal, provide
the applicant written notice of the submittal deficiencies electronically. The
applicant may correct the deficiencies and resubmit the application for a
completeness review.
         b.   If the applicant fails to resubmit an application within fifteen
(15) calendar days after being first notified of submittal deficiencies, the
application submittal shall be considered abandoned. If an applicant submits a
request in writing to the Administrator within fifteen (15) calendar days of
the application abandonment date, fifty (50%) percent of the application fee
paid for the withdrawn application shall be refunded.
      (3)   Application complete. On determining that the application is
complete, the Administrator shall:
         a.   Accept the application as submitted in accordance with the
procedures and standards of this Chapter in effect at the time of the
submittal; and
         b.   Provide the applicant written notice of application submittal
acceptance electronically.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3010 Development application process.
   Table 1
   Development Application Process
Develop           Process           Public Approv ing
ment     Sections Type    Review er Notice Body       Appeal Valid* Extens ion
Approval
Develop           Process Review Public Approv                       Extens
ment     Sections Type    er     Notice ing Body Appeal    Valid*    ion
Approval
         9-3011
Site     ( b)
Plan/    9-3012   Admin   Admin/ Y      BOA      ZBOA      1 year    1 year
Master   ( b)(4)          TRC/PB
Plan     9-3013
         ( a)
         9-3011
Minor    ( c)
Subdivi  9-3012   Admin   Admin/ N      Staff    ZBOA      1 year    Resubm it
sion     ( b)(4)          TRC
         9-3013
         ( c)
         9-3011
Major    ( d)
Subdivi  9-3012   Admin   Admin/ Y      BOA      ZBOA      1 year    1 year
sion     ( b)(4)          TRC/PB
         9-3013
         ( a)
         9-3011
         ( e)
Final    9-3012   Admin   Admin/ N      Staff    ZBOA      30 days   Resubm it
Plat     ( b)(4)          TRC                              to file
         9-3013
         ( c)
Develop
er       9-3014   Legisl  Admin/ Y      BOA      Supe rior Vari es   Varies
Agreeme           ative   PB                     Cour t
nt
Constru  9-3012
ction    ( b)(4)  Admin   Admin/ N      Staff    Supe rior 2 year s  1 year
Plans    9-3013           TRC                    Cour t
         ( b)
                          County
Buildin  N/A      Admin   Permit N      County   Supe rior 6 mont hs Resubm it
g Permit                  ting                   Cour t
                          Staff
 
   Admin = Administrator (reviewer) or Administrative (process)
   PB = Planning Board
   BOA = Board of Aldermen
   ZBOA = Zoning Board of Adjustment
   TRC = Technical Review Committee
   All Legislative and Quasi-Judicial Processes require public hearings in
accordance with the procedures outlined in the Zoning Ordinance.
   *   In accordance with G.S. 160D-108(d), unless otherwise specified,
development permits expire one (1) year after issuance unless work authorized
by the permit has substantially commenced. (Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3011 Subdivision and land development review process.
   The following Review Process Outline indicates the steps for submittals,
reviews, and development approvals in accordance with the requirements of the
Town of Canton Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
It should be noted that some applications may require additional information
specific to the development approval being sought. Further, these processes may
run concurrently, such as a Special Use Permit and Site Plan Approval or Major
Subdivision and Rezoning.
   (a)   Pre-submittal meeting/concept plan. The purpose of this meeting and
plan is for the applicant to discuss the proposed development and become
familiar with the regulations affecting the land to be subdivided and/or
developed. The Town shall provide feedback and guidance to the submission and
approval process.
   STEP 1:   Application Fees, if required Concept Plan
   STEP 2:   Administrative Review   
   STEP 3:   Applicant Meeting
   (b)   Site plan/master plan.
   STEP 1:   Application
         Fees
         Existing Conditions
         Project Description
         Site Plan (individual) or Master Plan (phased)
   STEP 2:   Completeness Review
   STEP 3:   Administrative Review, and Resubmittals, as necessary
   STEP 4:   Planning Board Review and Recommendation
   STEP 5:   Board of Alderman Review and Decision
   STEP 6:   Construction Drawings
         Landscape Plan
         Environmental Permits
   STEP 7:   Grading and Building Permits
   STEP 8:   Construction
   STEP 9:   Final Plat Process (required if any public infrastructure) See
Section 9-3011(e)
   (c)   Minor subdivision. Use this process for subdivisions involving no new
streets or roads, or right-of-way dedication, and where four (4) or fewer lots
result after the subdivision is completed.
   STEP 1:   Application
         Fees
         Final Plat
   STEP 2:   Completeness Review
   STEP 3:   Administrative Review, and Resubmittals, as necessary
   STEP 4:   Staff Approval
   STEP 5:   Submission of Final Plat for Town of Canton Staff Signatures
   STEP 6:   Final Approval and Recording at Haywood County (within six (6)
months of approval)
   (d)   Major subdivision. This process is used for all subdivisions not
considered a Minor Subdivision, an exempted subdivision, or an expedited
review. Major Subdivisions shall be subject to a Concept Plan and Pre-
Submission Meeting.
   STEP 1:   Application
         Fees
         Existing Conditions
         Project Description
         Preliminary Plat
         Drainage Calculations
         Developer Agreement (if needed)
         Protective Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (if applicable)
   STEP 2:   Completeness Review
   STEP 3:   Administrative Review and Resubmittals, as necessary
   STEP 4:   Planning Board Review and Recommendation
   STEP 5:   Board of Aldermen Review and Decision
   STEP 6:   Construction Drawings
         Landscape Plans
         Environmental Permits
   STEP 7:   Grading and Building Permits
   STEP 8:   Construction of Required Improvements
   STEP 9:   Final Plat - See Section
9-3011(e)
   (e)   Final plat.
   STEP 1:   Application
         Fees
         Final Plat (Compliance with G.S. 47-30, as amended)
         Guarantee of Improvements
         Certification of Infrastructure Installation
         As-Built Drawings
   STEP 2:   Completeness Review
   STEP 3:   Administrative Review and Resubmittals, as necessary
         Inspections
   STEP 4:   Staff Approval
   STEP 5:   Submission of Final Plat for Town of Canton Staff Signatures
   STEP 6:   Final Approval and Recording at Haywood County (within six (6)
months of approval)
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3012 Plan and plat requirements.
   Required plan sheets submitted as a part of an application must have the
necessary information for the Administrator and Boards to make an adequate and
informed decision on the proposed land development. However, the Administrator
may waive or require additional information based on the type of application,
site conditions, or the stage of the development process in which the plan is
being reviewed.
   (a)   General. Unless otherwise noted, plans required by this Chapter, or
any portion thereof, except for Concept Plans, shall be prepared:
      (1)   By an engineer, architect, landscape architect, or land surveyor
who is authorized by the State of North Carolina to practice as such;
      (2)   To a scale of not less than one (1) inch equal to one hundred (100)
feet (1" = 100');
      (3)   In one or more sheets of appropriate size (at least 24" x 36") to
show clearly the information required by this section and to facilitate the
review and approval of the development or subdivision;
      (4)   Showing all horizontal dimensions in feet;
      (5)   Indicating decimal fractions of a foot shall be rounded to the
closest one-hundredth of a foot (0.00); all bearings shall be in degrees,
minutes, and seconds; and
      (6)   Showing the name and address of the owner and/or developer, the
north arrow, the date, the scale of the drawing, and the number of sheets. In
addition, it shall reserve a blank space three (3) inches in width by five (5)
inches in length for the use of the approving authority.
   (b)   Plans and plats. The following plan types are required to be submitted
with applications for development approvals in the Town of Canton in accordance
with the procedures in Section
9-3013.
      (1)   Concept Plan. A Concept Plan is drawn to approximate scale on the
appropriate sheet or sheets of Haywood County's tax map series and shall show
the following. The Concept Plans, when submitted or discussed as a portion of a
pre-submittal meeting, shall not be a binding document nor shall its submission
or review be construed as an approval.
         a.   A vicinity map, including north arrow, showing the location of
any proposed building(s) or subdivision in relation to neighboring tracts,
subdivisions, roads, and waterways.
         b.   The name, address, and telephone number of the property owner.
         c.   The name of the proposed development project.
         d.   The boundary lines of the property.
         e.   The total acreage.
         f.   The existing and proposed land uses and the existing land uses of
adjacent properties.
         g.   The existing topographic conditions of the property including
contours not exceeding five-foot (5') intervals. Haywood County topographic
information may be used to fulfill this requirement.
         h.   The location, names, and private and recorded right-of-way widths
of any existing streets on or within three hundred (300) feet of the land to be
subdivided.
         i.   Lots of adjacent developed or platted properties.
         j.   Zoning classification of the land and adjacent properties.
         k.   Environmental features including:
            1.   Watershed classification, if any.
            2.   Delineation of slopes greater than twenty-five (25%) percent.
            3.   Floodway, non-encroachment, and surface water protection area
delineation.
            4   Floodplain delineation.
         l.   Tentative street layout.
         m.   Approximate right-of-way widths.
         n.   Lot arrangements.
         o.   Drainage and utility easements.
         p.   Sites for schools, parks, churches, and other non-residential
uses.
         q.   The approximate number of lots.
      (2)   Existing conditions plan. The existing conditions plan is a
necessary part of the application process as it highlights the conditions of
the subject site and allows both the applicant and the Town to take every
effort to preserve environmental features prior to site design.
         a.   Scale. Denote the scale both graphically and numerically with the
north arrow and declination.
         b.   Vicinity map. Include a vicinity map at a scale no smaller than
one (1) inch equals one thousand two hundred (1,200) feet showing the location
of the development with respect to adjacent streets and properties.
         c.   Topography. Original contours at intervals not greater than five
(5) feet for the entire area to be subdivided. Contours are to extend into the
adjacent property for a distance of three hundred (300) feet at all points
where street rights-of-way connect to the adjoining property, and fifty (50)
feet at all other points of common project boundaries. Haywood County digital
topography may be used to satisfy this requirement.
         d.   Survey/Existing Development. The boundary, as determined by
survey, of the area to be developed with all bearings and distances shown and
the location within the area, or contiguous to it, of any existing:
            1.   Buildings and structures;
            2.   Streets;
            3.   Rights-of-ways;
            4.   Bridges;
            5.   Culverts;
            6.   Railroad lines;
            7.   Water courses;
            8.   Cemeteries;
            9.   Easements;
            10.   Utilities;
            11.   Driveways and curb cuts;
            12.   Sidewalks;
            13.   Parking and loading;
            14.   Brownfields or any known contaminated areas;
            15.   Tree stands;
            16.   Any building restriction areas (i.e., flood hazard areas,
stream buffers, watershed protection districts, and/or jurisdictional
wetlands);
            17.   Any other environmentally significant areas; and/or
            18.   Any historic or cultural resources.
         e.   Significant Vegetation:
            1.   A description and GPS location of significant vegetation
twenty-four (24) inches in diameter at breast height (DBH) or greater.
            2.   The average size and height of stands of homogenous trees.
            3.   The typical tree species, size, spacing, and general health
and vigor of forest stands.
            4.   Identify all free-standing open-grown or field-grown specimen
trees located on the site.
         f.   Natural features. Show all natural features influencing site
design such as the location, description, delineation, and dimensions of:
            1.   Wetlands;
            2.   Rock outcroppings;
            3.   Slopes steeper than twenty (20%) percent;
            4.   Perennial streams;
            5.   Stream buffers;
            6.   Street, yard, or any other required buffers (existing);
            7.   Water quality / riparian buffers;
            8.   Natural drainage ways;
            9.   Lakes, streams, ponds, and other water bodies;
            10.   The exact location of floodplain, flood fringe, and floodway
(FEMA map number, date, and zone designation);
            11.   Soil types (including prime agricultural soils); and
            12.   Historical or cultural features, as well as;
            13.   Designated open space or conservation easements on adjoining
properties; and/or
            14.   Viewsheds.
         g.   Subject and surrounding property information.
            1.   Owner name and address;
            2.   PIN and/or Book and Page;
            3.   Zoning; and
            4.   Use.
      (3)   Landscape plan. The Landscape Plan shall include, at a minimum, the
following information at a scale no smaller than one (1) inch equals one
hundred (100) feet:
         a.   Existing landscape. General location, type, and quantity of
existing plant materials, including those areas to be left in a natural state.
Information can be shown on the existing conditions sheet. All vegetation
considered for preservation shall be shown on the Landscape Plan.
         b.   Proposed landscape. Locations, sizes, and labels for all proposed
plants, including those in rights-of-way.
         c.   Proposed hardscape improvements. Location of other hardscape
improvements such as walls, paving, courtyards, and walks.
         d.   Landscape protection. Methods and details for preserving the
critical root zone (CRZ) of existing plant materials during construction.
         e.   Plant lists. Plant lists with common name, botanical name,
quantity, spacing, condition (B&B, container) and size/height of all proposed
landscape material at the time of planting. Plant list should also indicate
what ordinance requirement the proposed plant is being used to fulfill (e.g.,
street tree, buffer, vehicle use area). Key of symbols used on plan should be
identified in the plant list.
         f.   Proposed landscape improvements. Location, size, and labels for
all required and proposed landscaping. Include the location and description of
other landscape improvements, such as earth berms, walls, fences, screens,
sculptures, fountains, streetlights, and parking area lights, courtyards,
walks, or paved areas.
         g.   Installation data. Planting and installation details as necessary
to ensure conformance with all required standards.
      (4)   Site plans, master plans, preliminary plats (major), construction
drawings, final plats and as-builts. The following plans and plats shall have a
property boundary, as determined by survey, of the area to be developed with
all bearings, distances, and curve data shown and depicting or containing the
information indicated in the following table. An "X" indicates that information
is required.
   Table 2
   Drafting Requirements for Plans and Plats
                     Site Plan
Information Required Master Plan      Construction Drawing As- Built Final Plat
                     Preliminary Plat
                                                                               Site Plan
Information Required                                                           Master Plan Construction As-   Final
                                                                               Preliminary Drawing      Built Plat
                                                                               Plat
Cover Sheet:
   Name of development                                                   X           X            X     X
   Scale (graphic and written)                                              X           X            X     X
   North arrow                                                              X           X            X     X
   Vicinity map                                                             X           X            X      
   Address of development of subdivision, including PINs                    X           X            X     X
   Town project number                                                      X           X            X      
   Name, address, and contact information of owner of record, applicant, andX           X            X     X
or developer
   Name, address, phone and seal of the plan preparer                       X           X            X     X
   Zoning classification (existing and proposed)                            X           X            X     X
   Site acreage                                                             X           X            X     X
   Certification blocks (see                                                                            X
Appendix A)
Title Block:
   Property title, PIN no., subdivision name and/or designation             X           X            X     X
   Location (township, county, state)                                       X           X            X     X
   Date(s) of survey and/or plat preparation and revisions                  X           X            X     X
   Name, address, registration number and seal of surveyor, engineer, or othXr          X            X     X
professional/preparer
Site Data/Calculations:
   Total acreage of tract and breakout of acreage of parks, open space, zoniXg          X            X     X
district and proposed land use
   Total number of lots existing and proposed                               X           X            X      
   Total number of housing units by housing type                            X           X            X      
   Building information (sq. footage, number of stories)                    X           X            X      
   Parcel data (required and proposed)                                      X           X            X      
      - Lot size                                                         X           X            X     X
      - Setbacks                                                         X           X            X     X
      - Building height                                                  X           X            X      
      - Lot width                                                        X           X            X      
      - Building coverage                                                X           X            X      
   Typical lot diagram (show building orientation, driveway location,       X           X                  
setbacks, etc.)
   Impervious surface calculations                                          X           X            X      
   Parking calculations (required and proposed)                             X           X            X      
   Linear feet in roads                                                     X           X            X      
   Proposed utility providers                                               X           X            X      
   Dates, status, conditions of previous approvals and applications relevantX           X            X      
to the application or site
   Required notes                                                           X           X            X     X**
Existing Conditions Plan (See Section                                          X           X                  
9-3012(B)(2))
Proposed Site Features:
   Proposed street, lot, and open space layout (subdivision)                X           X            X     X
   Proposed building layout (site plan)                                     X           X            X      
   Existing property lines to be subdivided or recombined                   X           X            X     X
   Exact lot lines, bearings, distances, and lot/block nos.                 X           X            X     X
   Zoning district boundaries                                               X           X            X     X
   Minimum building setback lines                                           X           X            X     X
   Proposed lot area of each new lot created                                X           X            X     X
   Proposed parks, school sites, or other open spaces and responsible partieX/          X            X     X
owners
   The zoning classifications of the tract and adjoining property           X           X            X      
   Buffer widths, street trees, landscaped areas (typical plantings)        X           X                 X
   Street trees and other site landscaping (actual locations) - see landscap           X            X      
plan
   Retaining walls                                                          X           X            X      
   The exact location of floodplain, flood fringe, and floodway (FEMA map   X           X            X     X
number, date, and zone designation)
Landscape Plan (See Section                                                               X            X      
9-3012(b)(3))
Roadways and Circulation:
   Proposed streets, curbs, dimensions, grades, and linear feet             X           X            X      
   Connecting streets and platted streets on adjoining properties           X           X            X     X
   Rights-of-way, locations and dimensions                                  X           X            X     X
   Approximate or final grades                                              X           X            X      
   Street names                                                             X           X            X     X
   Roadway cross-sections                                                              X            X      
   Sidewalks, bike lanes, and other improvements                            X           X            X      
   Circulation drives                                                       X           X            X      
   Parking and loading areas, dimensioned (ADA compliant)                   X           X            X      
   Bicycle parking                                                          X           X            X      
   Electric vehicle charging stations                                       X           X            X      
   Paths, greenways, bike trails                                            X           X            X      
   Parking and loading areas, dimensioned (ADA compliant)                   X           X            X      
   Bicycle parking                                                          X           X            X      
   Electric vehicle charging stations                                       X           X            X      
   Paths, greenways, bike trails                                            X           X            X      
Existing and Proposed Utilities: *
   Utility, drainage, access, conservation and other easements of record    X           X            X     X
   Transmission lines/provision of electrical service                       X           X            X      
   Natural gas lines                                                        X           X            X      
   Sanitary sewers, location, line size, top and invert elevations          X           X            X      
   Wastewater treatment                                                     X           X            X      
   Water lines, location and line size                                      X           X            X      
   Cable/broadband/fiber                                                    X           X            X      
   Stormwater facilities, drains, culverts, ponds                           X           X            X     X
   Plans for individual water supply and sewerage disposal connections      X           X            X      
(permission letters from agencies required to be submitted)
   Fire hydrants                                                            X           X            X      
   Streetlights or other site lighting                                      X           X            X      
Grading/Erosion Control and Sedimentation Plans
   Proposed grading/topography at 5' intervals, elevations, and slope       X           X            X      
calculations
   A copy of erosion control plan (approval letter from the county required            X            X      
be submitted)
Building and Architectural Elevations                                                     X            X      
Details and Cross Sections                                                                X            X      
Environmental Impact Statement (if needed)                                     X                             
Watershed Protection Permit (if needed)                                        X                             
Traffic Impact Analysis (if needed)                                            X                             
Restrictions (easements, covenants) and Ownership/Maintenance Documentation                                X
 
   *   Utility locations only to be noted on the preliminary plat and the site
plan. Details and specifications are required with the construction drawings.
   **   If the subdivision is located within the C-A Pigeon River Critical Area
Watershed Protection District as shown on the Official Zoning Map for the Town
of Canton, the following statement shall appear on the final plat:
      “THIS PROPERTY IS LOCATED WITHIN A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED;
DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS MAY APPLY.”
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3013 Administrative procedures.
   The Administrator or his/her designee will be responsible for the
administration of this Chapter. Further, the Administrator will be responsible
for the issuance of permits, certain development approvals and/or determining
the further applications (variance, rezoning) should an application not meet
the requirements of this Chapter or the Zoning Ordinance.
   (a)   Site Plan / Master Plan / Preliminary Plat (Major Subdivision).
      (1)   Applications for approval of Site Plans, Master Plans, and
Preliminary Plats of Major Subdivisions shall be filed with the Administrator
as outlined in this Article. The application shall be accompanied by applicable
fees as approved by the Board of Aldermen.
      (2)   The Administrator shall review the applications for completeness
and for compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. The plans shall also
be reviewed by the Technical Review Committee (TRC), which consists of
departments, staff, consultants, and agencies that are charged with the review
of development applications.
      (3)   If comments and revision requests are issued by either the
Administrator, staff, or TRC indicating that the plans do not comply with the
Chapter, the applicant shall revise the plans and resubmit until no major
outstanding issues remain.
      (4)   Before acting on the preliminary development plans the
Administrator shall request reports from all applicable public agencies and
departments, including emergency services, schools, etc. The reports should
certify compliance with or note deviations from the requirements of this
section and include comments on other factors which bear upon the public
interest.
      (5)   The Administrator will schedule the matter before the Planning
Board and prepare a staff report.
      (6)   The Planning Board shall review the Site Plan or Preliminary Plat
at or before its next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least
fifteen (15) days after the Administrator receives the application.
      (7)   The Planning Board shall, in writing, recommend to the Board of
Aldermen approval, conditional approval with recommended changes, or
disapproval of the Site Plan, Master Plan, or Preliminary Plat (Major
Subdivision) within forty-five (45) days of its first consideration of the
plat.
      (8)   The Board of Aldermen shall take action with an administrative
hearing (process is same as a legislative hearing, refer to Section
9-4132 of the Zoning Ordinance) upon an application for approval of a Site
Plan, Preliminary Plat (Major Subdivision) within forty-five (45) calendar days
after the recommendation of the Planning Board unless the applicant consents in
writing to an extension of this time limit.
         a.   Where applications are approved unconditionally, the
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the approval date.
         b.   Where applications are approved with conditions, the
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of the conditions and the
reasons.
         c.   Where applications are denied, the Administrator shall notify the
applicant of the reasons.
      (9)   After the plans have been approved and the permits have been
issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of the application, plans or
permits shall be made unless specific written approval has been obtained from
the Administrator, in accordance with Section 9-3017(c), Administrative
Modifications.
   (b)   Construction drawings.
      (1)   Applications for approval of construction drawings shall be filed
with the Administrator as outlined in this Article only after approval of the
Preliminary Plat, Site Plan, or Master Plan has been approved. The application
shall be accompanied by applicable fees as approved by the Board of Aldermen.
      (2)   The Administrator shall review the applications for completeness
and for compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. The plans shall also
be reviewed by the Technical Review Committee (TRC), which consists of
departments, staff, consultants, and agencies that are charged with the review
of development applications.
      (3)   If the plans are not in compliance with the approved Preliminary
Plat, Master Plan, or Site Plan or with the provisions of the development
ordinances, comments and revision requests will be issued by either the
Administrator, staff, or TRC. The applicant shall revise the plans and resubmit
until no major outstanding issues remain.
      (4)   The applicant shall submit a signature set and the Administrator
shall approve the construction drawings.
   (c)   Minor and Expedited Subdivision Plats and Final Plats.
      (1)   Minor and Expedited Subdivision Plats.
         a.   Applicants for Minor Subdivisions and Expedited Subdivisions
shall file an application for a Final Plat with the Zoning Administrator as
outlined in this Article. The application shall be accompanied by applicable
fees as approved by the Board of Aldermen.
         b.   The Administrator shall review the applications for completeness
and for compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and shall issue a
determination.
         c.   If the Administrator finds the application and plans not in
compliance with the development ordinances, comments and revision requests will
be issued by the Administrator. The applicant shall revise the plans and
resubmit until no major outstanding issues remain.
         d.   Reference points shall be installed in accordance with Section
9-3013. As built drawings and remaining application materials shall be
submitted and approved Final Plats shall be recorded by the County.
      (2)   Major Subdivision Final Plats.
         a.   The Final Plat shall be submitted at the same scale and on the
same sheet size as the Preliminary Plat and shall conform substantially to the
preliminary development plan as approved. The Final Plat shall constitute only
that portion of the approved Preliminary Plat which the subdivider proposed to
record and develop at the time; provided, however, that the portion conforms to
all requirements of this Chapter.
         b.   The Administrator shall review the application for completeness
and for compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and shall issue a
determination. Where applicable, the Administrator may submit the application
to the Technical Review Committee (TRC) which consists of departments, staff,
consultants, and agencies that are charged with the review of development
applications, should the application warrant additional scrutiny based on the
intensity of the proposed use, improvements or other development related
concern.
         c.   If the plans are not in compliance with the approved Preliminary
Plat, Master Plan, Site Plan, Construction Drawings, or with the provisions of
the development ordinances, comments and revision requests will be issued by
either the Administrator, staff, or TRC. The applicant shall revise the plans
and resubmit until no major outstanding issues remain.
         d.   If the Major Subdivision Final Plat conforms to the approved
Preliminary Plat, Master Plan or Site Plan, the Construction Drawings,
requirements lawfully established under this section, and all conditions of
approval, the Administrator (and TRC) shall administratively approve the final
major plat within thirty (30) working days from receipt of a complete final
subdivision submittal.
         e.   All required improvements shall be complete, or a performance
guarantee package shall be submitted in accordance with this Article and
subsequently approved by the Board of Alderman as outlined in Section
9-3015. Reference points shall be installed in accordance with Subsection (3),
below. As built drawings shall be provided if infrastructure has been
constructed without the provision of a performance guarantee and remaining
application materials shall be submitted and approved. Final Plats shall be
recorded by the County. If performance guarantees are in place, As-Built
drawings shall be provided to the Town prior to the issuance of Building
Permits and/or Certificates of Occupancy.
      (3)   Requirements for all final plats.
         a.   Permanent reference points. Prior to the approval of the Final
Plat, permanent reference points shall have been placed in accordance with the
Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina as published by the
North Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors, as per G.S. 47-30.
            1.   Subdivision Corner Tie. At least one (1) corner of the
subdivision shall be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily
discernible reference marker. If a corner is within two thousand (2,000) feet
of a U.S. Coast and Geodetic Station or N.C. Grid System coordinated monument,
or Town of Canton coordinated system, then this corner shall be marked with a
monument so designated by computed X and Y coordinates which shall appear on
the map with a statement identifying this station or monument to an accuracy of
one to ten thousand (1:10000). When such a monument or station is not
available, the tie shall be made to some pertinent and readily recognizable
landmark or identifiable point, physical object, or structure.
         2.   Monuments. Within each block of a subdivision at least two (2)
monuments designed and designated as control corners shall be installed. The
surveyor shall employ additional monuments if and when required. All monuments
shall be constructed of concrete and shall be at least four (4) inches in
diameter or square and not less than three (3) feet in length. Each monument
shall have imbedded in its top or attached by a suitable means, a metal plat of
noncorrosive material and marked plainly with the point, the surveyor's
registration number, the month and the year it was installed, and the word
"Monument" or "Control Corner." Monuments shall be set at least thirty (30)
inches in the ground with at least six (6) inches exposed above the ground
unless this requirement is impractical.
         3.   Property markers. A steel or wrought iron pipe or the equivalent
not less than three-fourths (3/4) inches in diameter and at least thirty (30)
inches in length shall be set at all corners, except those located by
monuments. A marker shall also be set at a point of curve, point of
intersection, property corner, point of tangency and reference point unless a
monument is placed at the points. Additional markers shall be placed where
necessary.
      b.   Accuracy. The allowable angular error of closure and lined error of
closure for surveys within the Town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction
shall be as follows:
         1.   Angular error of closure within the Town limits shall not exceed
twenty-five (25) seconds times the square root of the number of angles turned.
         2.   Linear error of closure within the Town limits shall not exceed
one (1) foot per seven thousand five hundred (7,500) feet of perimeter of the
lot of land (1:7500).
         3.   Angular error of closure beyond the Town limits shall not exceed
thirty (30) seconds times the square root of the number of angles turned.
         4.   Linear error of closure beyond the Town limits shall not exceed
one (1) foot per five thousand (5,000) feet of perimeter of the lot of land (1:
5000).
      c.   Final Plats shall contain sufficient data to determine readily and
reproduce on the ground the location, bearing and length of every street line,
lot line, boundary line (with error of closure), block line and building line,
whether curved or straight. This should include the radius, central angle,
point of tangent, tangent distance and arcs and chords of all curved streets
and curved property lines.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3014 Legislative procedures - developer agreements.
   (a)   Authorization. As authorized by G.S. 160D-1001, the Town may enter
into development agreements with developers subject to the procedures of
Article 10 of this Chapter and the established procedures and requirements
included below.
   (b)   General.
      (1)   The Town may not exercise any authority, make any commitment, or
impose any tax or fee not authorized by law.
      (2)   A development agreement shall not exempt the property owner or
developer from compliance with the State Building Code or State or local
housing codes that are not part of the local government's development
regulations.
      (3)   Development shall comply with all applicable laws, including all
ordinances, resolutions, regulations, permits, policies, and laws affecting the
development of the property, including permitted uses, density, intensity,
design, and improvements.
   (c)   Hearing. A development agreement must be approved by the Board of
Aldermen following a legislative hearing on the proposed agreement. Notice of
the hearing shall be made in accordance with Section
9-4132(c) of the Zoning Ordinance. The notice must specify the location of the
property subject to the development agreement, the development uses proposed on
the property, and must specify a place where a copy of the proposed development
agreement can be obtained. The legislative hearing should follow the same
procedures as for a zoning map or text amendments as outlined in the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (d)   Agreement incorporated into Chapter. The development agreement may, by
ordinance, be incorporated, in whole or in part, into any development
regulation adopted by the Town.
      (1)   A development agreement may be considered concurrently with a
zoning map or text amendment affecting the property and development subject to
the development agreement.
      (2)   A development agreement may be concurrently considered with and
incorporated by reference with a plan or Preliminary Plat required under a
subdivision or zoning regulation.
      (3)   If incorporated into a conditional district, the provisions of the
development agreement shall be treated as a development regulation in the event
of the developer's bankruptcy.
   (e)   Contents. A development agreement shall, at a minimum, include
subsections (1) though (7) below. Items contained in subsections (8) through
(10) below are at the discretion of the Board of Aldermen for the specific
development:
      (1)   A description of the property subject to the agreement and the
names of its legal and equitable property owners.
      (2)   The duration of the agreement. However, the parties may enter into
subsequent development agreements that may extend the original duration period.
Any action requiring an extension shall be requested prior to the actual
expiration date to ensure there is no lapse in coverage.
      (3)   The development uses permitted on the property, including densities
and building types, intensities, placement on the site, and design.
      (4)   A description of public facilities that will serve the development,
including who provides the facilities, the date any new public facilities, if
needed, will be constructed, and a schedule to assure public facilities are
available concurrent with the impacts of the development. In the event that the
development agreement provides that the Town shall provide certain public
facilities, the development agreement shall provide that the delivery date of
such public facilities will be tied to a successful performance by the
developer in implementing the proposed development, such as meeting defined
completion percentages or other performance standards.
      (5)   A description, where appropriate, of any reservation or dedication
of land for public purposes and any provisions, agreed to by the developer that
exceeds existing laws related to the protection of environmentally sensitive
property.
      (6)   A description, where appropriate, of any conditions, terms,
restrictions, or other requirements for the protection of public health,
safety, or welfare.
      (7)   A description, where appropriate, of any provisions for the
preservation and restoration of historic structures.
      (8)   A development schedule, including start dates and interim
completion dates at no greater than five (5) year intervals. Modifications to
dates may be requested by the developer.
      (9)   If another government entity is made a party to the agreement, the
agreement must specify which government body is responsible for the overall
administration of the development agreement. A local or regional utility
authority may also be made a party to the development agreement.
      (10)   Performance guarantees in accordance with G.S. 160D-804.1 and
Section
9-3015 of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3015 Performance guarantees.
   To ensure compliance with the development regulation requirements of G.S.
Chapter 160D and this Chapter. The Town of Canton may require Performance
Guarantees to assure successful completion of these required improvements.
   (a)   Type. The type of the performance guarantee shall be at the election
of the developer.
      (1)   A surety bond issued by any company authorized to do business in
North Carolina.
      (2)   Letter of credit issued by any financial institution licensed to do
business in North Carolina.
      (3)   Other forms of guarantee provide equivalent security to a surety
bond or letter of credit.
   (b)   Duration. The duration of the performance guarantee shall initially be
one (1) year unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the
required improvements necessitates a longer duration.
   (c)   Extension. A developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good-faith
progress toward the completion of the required improvements. If the
improvements are not completed to the specifications of the Town, and the
current performance guarantee is likely to expire prior to completion, the
performance guarantee shall be extended, or a new performance guarantee issued,
for an additional period. An extension under this subdivision shall only be for
the duration necessary to complete the required improvements.
   (d)   Release. The performance guarantee shall be returned or released, as
appropriate, in a timely manner upon the acknowledgment by the Town that the
improvements for which the performance guarantee is being required are
complete. This shall be as twenty-five (25%) percent, fifty (50%) percent,
seventy-five (75%) percent, and one hundred (100%) percent of the project is
completed; a corresponding percentage can be released, unless the Board of
Aldermen and the developer agree to an alternative schedule at the time of
approval.
   (e)   Amount. The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the reasonably estimated cost of completion at
the time the performance guarantee is issued. The Town may determine the amount
of the performance guarantee or use a cost estimate determined by the
developer. The reasonably estimated cost of completion shall include one
hundred percent (100%) of the costs for labor and materials necessary for the
completion of the required improvements. Where applicable, the costs shall be
based on unit pricing. The additional ten percent (10%) allowed under this
subdivision includes inflation and all costs of administration regardless of
how such fees or charges are denominated. The amount of any extension of any
performance guarantee shall be determined according to the procedures for
determining the initial guarantee and shall not exceed one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the reasonably estimated cost of completion of the remaining
incomplete improvements still outstanding at the time the extension is
obtained.
   (f)   Timing. The Town requires the performance guarantee to be posted at
the time the plat is recorded.
   (g)   Coverage. The performance guarantee shall only be used for completion
of the required improvements and not for repairs or maintenance after
completion.
   (h)   Legal responsibilities. No person shall have or may claim any rights
under or to any performance guarantee provided pursuant to this subsection or
in the proceeds of any such performance guarantee other than the following:
      (1)   The Town of Canton to whom the performance guarantee is provided.
      (2)   The developer at whose request or for whose benefit the performance
guarantee is given.
      (3)   The person or entity issuing or providing the performance guarantee
at the request of or for the benefit of the developer.
   (i)   Multiple guarantees. The developer shall have the option to post one
type of performance guarantee in lieu of multiple securities, for all
development matters related to the same project requiring performance
guarantees.
   (j)   Review and approval. Performance guarantees and any renewal of
performance guarantees shall be reviewed by the Planning Board and approved by
the Board of Aldermen. All approved performance guarantees shall be noted on
the Final Plat.
   (k)   Exclusion. Performance guarantees associated with erosion control and
stormwater control measures are not subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3016 Vested rights and permit choice.
   See Sections
9-4140 and
9-4141 of the Zoning Ordinance for provisions regarding vested rights and
permit choice. (Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3017 Exceptions and variances.
   (a)   Group project. The standards and requirements of this Chapter may be
modified by the Board of Aldermen for a group project when approved as a part
of a Conditional District. The development, in the judgment of the Board, shall
provide adequate public spaces and improvements for the circulation,
recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated, and which also provides such covenants or other legal provisions as
will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan. Conditional Districts
are subject to the requirements of
Chapter 4, Zoning.
   (b)   Variances. Where, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the provisions of the regulations of
this chapter would cause unnecessary hardship, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
may authorize a variance, if such variance can be made without destroying the
intent of this Chapter. Any variance requested must follow quasi-judicial
procedures as outlined in Zoning Ordinance Section
9-4114(c).
   (c)   Administrative modifications. Occasionally, unanticipated
circumstances require changes to approved development plans and permits. In
these cases, and when meeting the requirements of Zoning Ordinance Section
9-4097, minor modifications to development approvals may be granted.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
ARTICLE C
Improvement Standards
Section 9-3018 General requirements for development.
   The Town of Canton requires the following elements for all land development
and subdivisions within Town limits and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (a)   Potable water. Connection to the Town's water system required prior to
Final Plat/development approval. See Section
5-3007 of Chapter 3 of Part 5 of the Code of Ordinances for annexation
requirements should the property be located outside the municipal limits.
   (b)   Sanitary sewer. Connection to the Town's sewer system required prior
to Final Plat/development approval. See Section
5-3007 of Chapter 3 of Part 5 of the Code of Ordinances for annexation
requirements should the property be located outside the municipal limits.
   (c)   Stormwater. No development or redevelopment shall occur in the Town of
Canton or its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) except in compliance with the
requirements of the Town of Canton Stormwater Ordinance.
   (d)   Fire hydrants. Fire suppression systems shall meet the requirements of
the Town's Fire Code.
   (e)   Public streets and street rights-of-way. Rights-of-way and public
streets will be required to be dedicated to the Town. See Section
9-3021 of this Chapter. Sidewalks shall be provided within the right-of-way and
provided on all new development, with the exception of infill single and two-
family residential homes, per Section
9-3023 of this Chapter. Grading, paving, curb, and gutter shall be installed as
a portion of the required right-of-way for public streets. Curb and gutter may
also be required in parking areas and along drive aisles.
   (f)   Utility and access easements. Where applicable, easements are required
to be dedicated to the Town, the utility company, or agency which will utilize
the said easement for the provision of services. All utilities located within
Major Subdivisions and land developments shall be located underground.
   (g)   Greenways and multi-use paths. Shall be required when identified upon
adopted transportation, recreation, or similar plans. Paths may also be
provided as a form of passive or active open space / recreation and used to
meet the requirements of this Chapter.
   (h)   Streetlights and lighting. Required per Section
9-3029 of this Chapter.
   (i)   Landscaping and open space. Required per Section
9-3027 of this Chapter.
   (j)   Guarantee of improvements and developers agreement. In accordance with
Sections
9-3014 and
9-3015 of this Chapter.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3019 Improvements beyond the town's extraterritorial limits.
   (a)   In the adoption of this Chapter, the Town Board of Alderman recognizes
that under the General Statutes it may not be mandatory that a subdivision
located beyond the Town's extraterritorial jurisdiction shall comply with the
requirements set forth in this Article and other existing policies and
ordinances of the Town as a condition precedent for final approval of a plat of
such subdivision. However, unless the requirements are complied with, the Town
will not extend any public service and will not extend its water or sewer mains
to any such subdivision or permit any connection thereto.
   (b)   In those subdivisions that lie outside the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, but are subject to subdivision regulations, all roads and
utilities within the subdivision must conform to State minimum standards for
that particular utility, road or service.
   (c)   No water or sewer shall be provided to any property outside of the
municipal limits of the Town and no Final Plat shall be recorded for any
property outside the municipal limits for which water and/or sewer service will
be provided unless they meet the requirements outlined in Division II, Part 5,
Chapter 3, Section
5-3007 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
ARTICLE D
Design Standards
Section 9-3020 General standards.
   (a)   All portions of a tract being subdivided shall be taken up in lots,
streets, public lands or other proposed uses so that remnants and landlocked
areas shall not be created.
   (b)   Conformity to Existing Plans. Every subdivision plat or land
development plans shall conform to any applicable adopted plans and ordinances
of the Town of Canton.
   (c)   Lot lines shall in general follow municipal boundary lines rather than
cross them.
   (d)   All performance standards as stated in
Chapter 4, Zoning, relating to natural features and other environmental
controls shall be adhered to.
   (e)   Subdivisions and land developments shall be designed to avoid the
necessity for excessive cut and/or fill.
   (f)   Common open space. All common open space shall be designated on the
Preliminary Plat, as-built drawing, and Final Plat. The Final Plat shall
indicate that common open space shall not be further developed, and the
developer shall indicate on the Final Plat how the common open space will be
maintained and ownership of said open space.
   (g)   Flood damage. All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage as provided for in the Town Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance, Chapter 5 of this Town Code. Where flooding is known to
have occurred within the area shown on the plan, such area shall be clearly
marked "Subject to periodic flooding," and no building or streets shall be
permitted in this area except as may be permitted by
Chapter 4, Zoning.
   (h)   When only a portion of a tract is being reviewed but where future
subdivision or development is possible, the applicant shall demonstrate that
the remainder of the tract or parcel may be subdivided or developed in
conformance with the existing zoning classification in a logical and
satisfactory manner.
   (i)   Applicants shall observe the ultimate rights-of-way of contiguous
existing streets within the Town. Additional portions of the corridors of such
streets shall be offered to the governmental agency having jurisdiction at the
time the subdivision or land development is approved. Applicable building
setback lines as defined in
Chapter 4, Zoning, shall be delineated as measured from the ultimate right-of-
way.
   (j)   A maintenance and financial responsibility plan for the roads within
the subdivision, covering the period between the time lot sales begin and when
the roads are accepted by the Town and/or NCDOT must be submitted and approved
before Final Plat approval. Prior to approval of a Final Plat with proposed
public roads or prior to a release of a guarantee of improvements for said
subdivision, the developer shall submit a notarized statement of financial
responsibility for road maintenance which shall remain valid until the roads
are dedicated to the Town, North Carolina Department of Transportation, or
another responsible party.
   (k)   Proposed subdivision and land development shall be coordinated with
the existing nearby neighborhood so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously. Existing stub streets on contiguous parcels shall be extended
into new developments where such stub streets were designed to be connected to
new streets on adjacent parcels.
   (l)   Traffic Impact Analysis. A Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) shall be
required for a rezoning, conditional district, Site Plan, special use permit,
certificate of zoning compliance, or Preliminary Plat for developments and/or
their subsequent phases with an estimated trip generation of one hundred (100)
peak hour trips per day or greater during an average weekday based on a five-
day national average as defined in the ITE Trip Generation Manual. At the
discretion of the Planning Director, a TIA may be required for projects
generating seventy-five (75) or more peak hour trips, based on case specific
determining factors.
   (m)   Improvement construction requirements shall be completed under the
construction specifications of the Town of Canton, the specifications of the
North Carolina Department of Transportation, the Department of Environmental
Quality, Haywood County or other appropriate agencies or specifications
included herein, whichever shall result in the most restrictive interpretation
of this chapter and whichever standard exacts the highest quality.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3021 Streets and rights-of-way.
   (a)   Streets required.
      (1)   All new development shall abut a public street.
      (2)   New development and substantial improvements to existing
development with frontages on existing public streets shall be required to
upgrade all their frontages to meet the standards of this section.
      (3)   New development without frontages upon a public street shall, in
all cases, extend and connect to a public street. Public street extensions and
improvements required for new development, including those beyond the
development boundary, are the sole responsibility of the developer. Such
improvements must be provided in accordance with the requirements of the
current edition of the North Carolina Department of Transportation "Subdivision
Roads Minimum Construction Standards" manual.
      (4)   Streets shall be installed by the developer and dedicated to the
Town prior to the approval of any Final Plat or development plan unless a
performance guarantee is provided to the Administrator in accordance with Town
Code (See Section
9-3015), this Chapter, and procedures established by the Administrator. Streets
shall be installed by the developer and dedicated to the Town prior to the
issuance of any certificates of occupancy for any building within that phase or
on that street, as applicable to the particular development.
      (5)   Town streets shall be built to the minimum specifications of the
North Carolina Department of Transportation "Subdivision Roads Minimum
Construction Standards" manual.
         (b)   Connectivity. Streets shall interconnect within a development
and with adjoining development. Cul-de-sacs and turnarounds (Section 9-3021(j))
are permitted only where topographic conditions and/or exterior lot line
configurations offer no practical alternatives for connection or through
traffic. Street stubs shall be provided with development adjacent to open land
to provide for future connections at the discretion of the Administrator.
Streets shall be planned with due regard to the designated corridors shown on
adopted plans and policies of the Town or Haywood County.
         (c)   Public streets. Subdivision streets to be dedicated to public
use and to be maintained by the Town and/or NCDOT, after construction, shall
conform in all respects to G.S. 136-102.6. Public subdivision roads shall
conform to the following standards:
      (1)   No Major Subdivision shall be reviewed until the application has
been made to the Town engineer or NCDOT for review of the public streets.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide proof that the Town engineer or
district engineer of the NCDOT has issued a design certificate of approval.
Upon completion of streets to be dedicated to public use, the developer shall
submit confirmation by the NCDOT or a professional engineer that the roads have
been constructed to NCDOT standards.
   (d)   Private streets. Private streets shall be prohibited.
   (e)   Intersections. The following standards shall be applicable to street
intersections:
      (1)   All proposed connections to NCDOT roads shall meet the criteria of
the latest revisions of the NCDOT "Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction
Standards," and the "Policy on Street and Driveway Access to North Carolina
Highways."
      (2)   No more than two (2) streets shall intersect at one point unless
the intersection is designed as a roundabout.
      (3)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and
no street shall intersect any other street at an angle of less than sixty (60)
degrees, unless the intersection is designed as a roundabout.
      (4)   Proper sight lines shall be maintained at all intersections of
streets to permit adequate sight distance. Where the posted speed limit is less
than twenty (20) mph, the intersection sight distance may be reduced to one
hundred five (105) feet.
      (5)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a
minimum radius of twenty (20) feet.
      (6)   Where curbs are provided on streets or where curbs and sidewalks
are constructed within a subdivision, any construction shall provide curb ramps
or curb cuts for handicapped persons at all intersections.
   (f)   Traffic control. Street markers and traffic control signs shall be
required and posted in accordance with Town standards and the Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices. Such infrastructure shall be installed by the
developer prior to the issuance of any Certificates of Occupancy for any
building on that street.
   (g)   On-street parking. On-street parking shall adhere to the following
requirements:
      (1)   On-street parking may be required and/or approved by the
Administrator.
      (2)   When required, all on-street parking provided shall be parallel.
Curb or angle parking is permitted upon approval of the Administrator when the
fronting buildings are more than twenty-two (22) feet in height to provide
spatial definition and when the posted speed limit is less than twenty-five
(25) mph.
      (3)   When required, minimum right-of-way widths shall be modified to
account for on street parking.
   (h)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to:
         a.   The provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated, and adequate public open spaces
accessible and visible to residents.
         b.   District requirements and design criteria.
         c.   Needs of non-vehicular and vehicular traffic circulation and
traffic control and safety.
         d.   Opportunities and constraints of topography, with convenient
access to important physical and topographical features such as lakes and
rivers, significant areas of trees and other natural features, and areas of
high ground offering scenic views.
      (2)   Blocks shall not be less than two hundred (200) feet nor more than
six hundred sixty (660) feet (-mile), as measured from edge of right-of-way,
unless site and topography or other special circumstances are present as
determined by the Administrator. Where deemed necessary by the Administrator, a
pedestrian crosswalk of at least ten (10) feet in width may be required.
      (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two (2) tiers of lots
of minimum depth except where single tier lots are required to separate
residential development from another type of use, or when abutting a perennial
stream or lake.
      (4)   The Town of Canton Fire Marshall shall reserve the right to
approve/deny the proposed length of a roadway and/or the overall street layout
based on site conditions, number of lots served, and required access for
emergency vehicles.
   (i)   Street typical sections. Local streets shall be provided on forty-five
(45) feet of right-of-way. Two (2) travel lanes shall be provided at nine (9)
feet each and flanked by two and a half (2.5) feet curb and gutter. In
addition, the street section shall also provide five (5) foot planting strips,
five (5) foot sidewalks, and one (1) foot off the back of the sidewalk on
either side of the street. See the figure below for reference. The
Administrator shall reserve the right to approve alternative street sections
when conditions of the site warrant the need for alternative designs or when
the classification of the road varies from a local road.
   Figure 1
   Local Road Street Section
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d535c1b018e4bb25aeee8131353c96055d156536/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2078.png]
 
 
   (j )    Turnarounds. The minimum pavement width for turnarounds shall be as
follows as shown in Figure 2 below:
      (1)   Cul-de-sac, minimum pavement radius, thirty-five (35) feet;
      (2)   T-turnarounds, minimum pavement length of perpendicular cord will
be one hundred twenty (120) feet;
      (3)   L-turnarounds, minimum pavement length of each cord will be sixty
(60) feet; and
      (4)   Y-turnarounds, minimum pavement length of each cord will be sixty
(60) feet.
Figure 2
Dimensional Requirements for Local Road Turnarounds
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d535c1b018e4bb25aeee8131353c96055d156536/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2080.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d535c1b018e4bb25aeee8131353c96055d156536/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2082.png]
L- TURNAROUND
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3022 Driveway and access standards.
   Internal access and lot driveways meet the following requirements:
   (a)   Location.
      (1)   All non-shared access driveways shall be constructed to be at least
five (5) feet from any property line at the right of-way, except that a curb
return may become tangent to a curb line at a point where said property line
extended intersects said curb line.
      (2)   Driveways shall be located at a point along the frontage where it
is possible for drivers of vehicles entering the roadway to see in both
directions along the traveled way far enough to allow entering the roadway
without creating a hazardous situation.
      (3)   Consideration of adjacent streets and other driveways shall be used
to prevent closely spaced driveways to adjacent propertie s and favor a more
centralized driveway(s) to promote connectivity.
      (4)   The Town reserves the right to permit access where it deems
appropriate for the operational needs of the site and existing infrastructure.
There is no guarantee of access to the applicant's preferred driveway location
or access point.
      (5)   Access may be restricted to less than a full access movement. Any
required infrastructure improvements may be required as a condition of the Site
Plan in addition to the required improvements of Sec.
9-3018.
      (6)   At signalized street intersections, no driveway/curb cut shall be
located within three hundred (300) feet of the intersection on Major Roadways
and two hundred (200) feet on Minor/Local Streets.
      (7)   At unsignalized street intersections, no driveway/curb cut shall be
located within two hundred (200) feet of the intersection on Major Roadways and
one hundred (100) feet on Minor/Local Streets.
      (8)   Minimum separation distances for driveways:
   Table 3
   Driveway Separation Distances
                         Minimum Distance Between   Minimum Distance Between
Posted Speed Limit (mph) Driveways and Cuts* (feet) Driveways and
                                                    Intersections* (feet)
                         Minimum Distance Between   Minimum Distance Between
Posted Speed Limit (mph) Driveways and Cuts* (feet) Driveways and
                                                    Intersections* (feet)
>15                      20                         100
20                       40                         100
25                       60                         60
30                       80                         150
35                       105                        190
40                       135                        235
45                       165                        285
50                       200                        340
55                       215                        400
 
   *   Measurements are from the nearest edge of the stem of the driveway to
the nearest edge of the other driveway stem.
   (b)   Channelization. Adequate driveway channelization is required in order
to accommodate the operations needs of the development while protecting the
functionality of the intersection. Protected driveway channelization assists
with traffic organization of entering and exiting traffic while preventing
excessive maneuverability and cross-traffic close to the intersection. All
developments are required to provide a minimum of fifty (50) feet of minimum
channelization (from the edge of pavement on the intersecting roadway) prior to
any internal driveways, cross access, or direct parking areas. For larger
commercial developments and high-density mixed-use developments, a minimum of
one hundred (100) feet will be required. Driveways that are served by a
signalized intersection, a minimum of two hundred (200) feet of protected
channelization is required or beyond the limits of storage required by the
signal, whichever is larger.
   (c)   Width. No driveway or curb cut shall be less than twelve (12) feet nor
greater than twenty-four (24) feet in width at the point of intersection with
the margin of the right-of-way of any street located in the Town, except curb
cuts may be wider than twenty-four (24) feet if a center median is provided.
   (d)   Elevation. The elevation of all private driveways at the point of
intersection with the margin of the right-of-way of all streets, which margin
shall be established to be not less than fifteen (15) feet from the centerline
of the street, shall be at the level of the street. No grade on any private
driveway for a distance of seven (7) feet from the margin of the right-of-way
of the street shall be greater than three-tenths foot from the intersection of
the margin of the right-of-way of the street, and all approaches at private
driveways shall be above street level for a distance of seven (7) feet measured
from the right-of-way of the street.
   (e)   Joint use driveways.
      (1)   Wherever feasible, the Administrator shall require the
establishment of a joint use driveway serving two abutting properties.
      (2)   When a property is developed before an abutting property is
developed, the site shall be designed to ensure that its driveway and
circulation may be modified to create a joint use driveway and interconnected
parking with the abutting property at a later date.
   (f)   Compliance with State requirements.
      (1)   Any person or corporation desiring to construct a driveway or other
connection within the right-of-way of the town or state shall, before beginning
any construction, secure the appropriate permits from the authorizing agency,
allowing such construction. Driveway connections to residences are normally
excluded from this requirement but may be included at the option of the
authorizing agency.
      (2)   Failure to secure a permit prior to construction may result in the
removal of the driveways and/or denial of access at that location.
   (g)   Culverts.
      (1)   No water culvert shall be installed in or on the streets of the
Town, less than fifteen (15) inches in diameter, and the diameter shall be
increased in areas having an excess of runoff groundwater and surface drainage.
      (2)   All culverts installed shall be constructed of corrugated metal
pipe, double-walled HDPE, concrete pipe, cast iron or other approved materials.
No culverts shall be constructed of wood or terracotta.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3023 Pedestrian facility standards.
   Pedestrian infrastructure shall be constructed in accordance with the
following requirements:
   (a)   In determining the type of pedestrian infrastructure that shall be
required, the Administrator shall refer to any adopted plan or policy of the
Town for guidance. Such plans or policies include but are not limited to
transportation plans, Master Plans, small area plans, and other plans and
policies.
   (b)   Sidewalks shall be installed by the developer and dedicated to the
Town prior to the approval of any Final Plat or development plan, unless a
performance guarantee is provided to the Administrator in accordance with Town
Code (See Section
9-3015), this chapter, and procedures established by the Administrator. If a
performance guarantee is provided, sidewalks shall be installed by the
developer and dedicated to the Town prior to the issuance of any certificates
of occupancy for any building within that phase or on that street, as
applicable to the particular development.
   (c)   Pedestrian infrastructure shall be constructed within the street
right-of-way. The approving authority shall require the dedication of
additional street right-of-way or a pedestrian easement when sufficient right-
of-way does not exist to comply with this requirement. The approving authority
may accept the dedication of additional right-of- way or a pedestrian easement
in order to accommodate alternative routes and designs that do not follow
streets.
   (d)   Streets shall be bordered by pedestrian infrastructure on both sides.
Exceptions to this requirement and modifications to the design of pedestrian
infrastructure may be granted by the Technical Review Committee (TRC) for
developments in steep slope areas and where warranted by environmental or
topographic conditions, or where this requirement would serve no useful
purpose.
   (e)   Without exception, pedestrian infrastructure shall be required along
all new streets within new subdivisions or developments, and within new phases
of existing subdivisions and any other form of development.
   (f)   Without exception, pedestrian infrastructure shall be required along
existing streets within or abutting new subdivisions and any other form of
development; or along existing streets within or abutting any form of existing
development undergoing substantial improvement (except for individual single-
family and two-family structures).
   (g)   Sidewalk infrastructure shall be required along the same side of the
street upon which the development fronts, except that when a development
project is located on both sides of the same street the approving authority may
require that infrastructure be installed on both sides of the street.
   (h)   When site characteristics and/or traffic patterns are such that the
construction of pedestrian infrastructure in accordance with this section would
be a hardship and would not result in useful pedestrian walkways, the
Administrator, upon recommendation from the TRC, may allow the applicant to pay
a fee in lieu of requiring construction of the infrastructure. In determining
whether to accept a fee in lieu of construction of infrastructure, the
Administrator shall refer to any adopted plan or policy of the Town for
guidance.
   (i)   The Administrator may accept a performance guarantee for the
construction of sidewalks on behalf of the Town in situations where no other
public infrastructure is proposed in accordance with Section
9-3015 of this Chapter.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3024    Utility standards.
   (a)   The Preliminary Plat or Site Plan must be accompanied by satisfactory
evidence as to the proposed method and system of water supply and sanitary
sewage collection and disposal.
   (b)   Sewer, water, storm water, and other utility easements shall be
required for the provision of utilities and services within all new development
and may be required within existing developments undergoing improvements at the
discretion of the Administrator. Easements shall be shown on all land
development and subdivision plats and plans.
   (c)   Unless otherwise specified, underground utilities should be located in
public street rights-of-way. Or a five-foot (minimum) utility easement shall be
provided behind the sidewalk located within either the right-of-way or a public
utility easement. Utility easements centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided where deemed necessary by the approving authority and shall be at
least thirty (30) feet in width.
   (d)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such water course, and
such further width or construction, or both, as may be adequate for the purpose
of drainage.
   (e)   Lakes, ponds (including those for the purpose of stormwater), creeks,
and similar areas within a subdivision are to be maintained by a Homeowner's
Association or other method of ownership as outlined in Article D. These areas
will not be accepted for maintenance by the Town without specific staff
recommendation and approval from the Board of Aldermen.
   (f)   Easements shall be accurately depicted upon all plats and plans and
dedicated to the Town or appropriate authority or agency by means of a plat of
dedication in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator.
   (g)   No structure shall be placed upon any easement. Fences and other
impermanent obstructions may be permitted by the Administrator in consultation
with the Public Works Director on public property.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3025 Easements.
   Easements shall be conveyed to the town or other appropriate agency for
underground and overhead utility installation, stormwater drainage, pedestrian/
bicycle access retaining walls, and other purposes as required by the town.
Easements shall be centered along rear or side lot lines. The minimum width for
easements is set out in the table below. The Administrator may vary easement
widths if the topography along the proposed right-of-way is such that
maintenance equipment or other necessary access cannot reasonably be achieved
within the minimum width specified by the table.
   Table 4
   Minimum Easement Widths
Easement Type Minimum Width (feet)
Easement Type                   Minimum Width (feet)
Greenway                        20-50
Pedestrian/bic ycle accessway   20
Alleys                          20
Watercourse or drainage channel 25
Underground storm drainage      To be determined by TRC / Administrator
Public utility access easement  5 foot/ 5 foot surround
Water/sewer easements           To be determined by service provider
Retaining wall                  TBD by Administrator
All other easements             20
 
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3026 Dedication of stormwater infrastructure.
   (a)   Stormwater management facilities. The Town of Canton, in its
discretion with staff recommendation and Board of Aldermen approval, may accept
dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for
maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this Chapter
and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or
otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance. This section is subject to
the Stormwater Management Ordinance and Article D.
   (b)   Limits of public ownership and maintenance responsibility. The
following components of the drainage infrastructure will not be maintained by
the Town of Canton:
      (1)   All drainage easements shall be public to the end of any storm
drainage pipe system device. All drainage beyond that point shall be carried in
drainage easements which are private and will be owned and maintained by the
individual property owner. This shall apply both inside the corporate limits
and the ETJ.
      (2)   The Town of Canton assumes no liability or responsibility for
adjudicating disputes between property owners regarding non-publicly generated
storm water.
      (3)   Drainage systems on private property that do not have dedicated
easements.
      (4)   Drainage systems maintained by NCDOT as part of its State highway
system.
   (c)   Private detention/retention/water quality pond areas. The town will
not accept any private detention, retention, or water quality pond areas for
ownership or maintenance; however, the town reserves the right to enter these
areas and remove any debris/blockage that is adversely affecting the town's
drainage system. This will be done in an emergency situation without notice.
Under normal conditions, the town will contact the owner/developer to have said
blockages removed. If unable to do so within a reasonable time, the town
reserves the right to charge the owner/developer for any expense incurred by
the town in doing so.
   (d)   Natural water courses. Natural ditches, streams, creeks, and rivers
shall not be maintained by the Town of Canton except to remove debris/blockages
that are adversely affecting the town's drainage system.
   (e)   Limitation of consequential damage to private facilities located on
public easements. All public easements, including storm sewers, are to remain
clear of obstructions. No buildings, fences, trees, shrubs, or other
obstructions shall be placed in any easement. Driveways, walkways, asphalt, and
parking lots may be permitted in easements; however, the town reserves the
right to remove such asphalt, concrete, base course, and sod as necessary to
access its facility in the case of emergency. Pavement or concrete will be
replaced with a patch. Sod will be replaced with Fescue or rye seeding. The
town will not be responsible for replacing a property owner's landscaping, sod,
or other obstructions after repairing a drainage line.
   (f)   Subdivision/common development. Where a subdivision/development is
traversed by a water course, drainage way, underground storm drain, the
subdivider/developer shall dedicate to the Town (where applicable in accordance
with the above) a drainage maintenance easement as specified by Section
9-3025. Private drainage easement widths shall also correspond to these same
criteria. The Town's Engineer may require wider easement widths if the
topography along the proposed right-of-way is such that maintenance equipment
cannot reasonably operate within the easement.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3027 Landscaping and open space standards.
   (a)   Street trees.
      (1)   Street trees shall be required along all public and private streets
for the following categories of development:
         a.   All non-residential and mixed-use development.
         b.   All projects approved as a conditional zoning district, special
use permit, planned development, or group development.
         c.   All residential subdivisions for which new streets are required.
         d.   New residential subdivisions or projects or where more than two
(2) lots or dwelling units are proposed.
      (2)   Large canopy trees shall be installed at a minimum average distance
of forty (40) feet on-center in a planting strip a minimum of five (5) feet in
width. Such trees shall be a minimum of two (2) inches in caliper at planting.
Where overhead utilities exist prior to development, ornamental trees may be
substituted.
      (3)   Street trees shall be placed at least eight (8) feet from light
poles and ten (10) feet from electrical transformers in order to allow these
utilities to be safely serviced (ornamental trees may be placed within five (5)
feet of such devices). A minimum of three hundred (300) square feet of pervious
ground area per canopy tree shall be provided unless they are planted in
irrigated tree wells.
      (4)   Street trees shall be deciduous hardwoods and shall meet the
standards set forth in the American Standard for Nursery Stock by the American
Association of Nurserymen.
   (b)   Perimeter buffer. Each tract on which a development or subdivision is
proposed shall be provided with a perimeter buffer of at least ten (10) feet in
width extending around the entire perimeter of the site. This buffer shall
provide a physical visual and sound filter from adjacent properties and
roadways. The buffer shall provide a minimum of eighteen (18) total plants per
one hundred (100) linear feet, consisting of:
      (1)   Ten (10) shrubs (at least eight (8) shall be evergreen), min. two
feet (2') in height at time of planting;
      (2)   Three (3) small deciduous trees, two inches (2") in caliper;
      (3)   One (1) large deciduous tree, minimum of two inches (2") in
caliper; and
      (4)   Four (4) evergreen trees, at least six feet (6') in height at time
of planting.
   Existing vegetation may be used as for buffer plantings.
   (c)   Vehicular use area landscaping.
      (1)   Screening.
         a.   Applicability. Perimeter yard of all parking areas visible from
the street (except one- and two-family homes).
         b.   Minimum planting. Semi-opaque screen from the ground to at least
a height of three (3) feet for screening of car lights and glare (minimum
width: ten (10) feet).
         c.   Performance standard. This type functions as a semi-opaque screen
around the parameter of a parking lot from the ground to at least three (3)
feet for the screening of car lights and glare. This shall only be required
along the parking area that fronts the public right-of-way or any side of a
parking lot that is not protected by a required buffer yard. The location of
such yards shall be determined by the Administrator upon review. Effective
screening devices may include solid decorative brick walls, wood fences, earth
berms, tight evergreen hedges which shall reach the required height within two
(2) years of planting, or any combination of the above. Plantings which can
achieve a mature height exceeding thirty (30) inches shall not be planted in
the sight triangle on each side of drives or streets.
         d.   Screening of open storage, above ground utilities, and dumpsters.
Any open storage of merchandise, equipment, materials, or goods other than
those on display for retail sales, above ground utilities, and dumpsters areas
shall be screened from view from any street right-of-way with a 70-30 mix of
evergreen to deciduous vegetation. Sub-grade dumpsters shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   Parking lot landscaping.
         a.   Applicability. Interiors of all parking areas with more than ten
(10) parking spaces.
         b.   Stormwater management requirements. Applicants are encouraged to
design buffer and other landscape areas in such a way as to encourage
alternatives for stormwater management.
         c.   Minimum plantings.
            1.   No parking space shall be more than fifty (50) feet from the
base of a canopy tree.
            2.   One (1) 15-to-18-inch minimum height evergreen or deciduous
shrub shall be required per two hundred fifty (250) square feet of required
landscaped vehicular use area. This rate may be varied by the Administrator
considering alternate shrub heights, ground covers, or other factors.
         d.   Performance standard. This type functions as a tree ceiling over
a parking area providing shelter from sun and rain and minimizing the impact of
runoff by providing "green" surface area on which to collect. Large maturing
canopy trees shall be planted in a manner that provides shade for the entire
parking area at maturity. All landscaped areas shall be separated from parking
spaces. The use of differing species around the parking area is encouraged to
promote diversity in the overall urban tree canopy. The use of existing
vegetation to satisfy this requirement is encouraged. Supplemental plantings
may be required in addition to native materials.
   (d)   Open space.
      (1)   All common open space shall be designated on the Preliminary Plat,
as-built drawing, and final plat. The final plat shall indicate that common
open space shall not be further developed, and the developer shall indicate on
the final plat how the common open space will be maintained and ownership of
said open space.
      (2)   All Major Subdivisions must dedicate the equivalent of five (5%)
percent of the total land area of the original parcel or combination or parcels
used in the subdivision as dedicated, common open space.
      (3)   Designation of easements to the town for parks or greenways
according to the Town's pedestrian plan, greenway master plan or recreation and
parks plan may qualify for the dedicated open space requirements but must be
approved by the Planning Board.
      (4)   Land designated as open space on a final plat shall be dedicated to
a neighborhood association or other entity, or shall be considered to be
offered for dedication to the town as outlined in Article E or below. The town
may accept control of the open space through:
         a.   Express action by the governing board;
         b.   Approval of the final plat with areas specifically dedicated to
the Town of Canton for the purpose of open space, park and/or greenway
development as accepted by the Board of Aldermen; or
         c.   Conveyance of fee simple marketable title (unencumbered
financially and environmentally) to the property to the town at the time of
final plat recordation, subject to approval by the Board of Aldermen.
         d.   Until such time as the dedication has been accepted, land so
offered may be used for open space purposes and be maintained by the underlying
or abutting property owner or similarly by an owners' association. Land so
offered for dedication shall not be used for any purpose inconsistent with the
proposed public use.
      (5)   Requirements concerning land dedicated to the town for recreational
purposes. The Board of Aldermen must approve property dedications being offered
to the town for parks and greenways facilities at the time of final plat
approval. The Board of Aldermen may request review by the Recreation and Parks
Commission before making their determination. Dedications should meet the
following criteria:
         a.   Unity. Dedicated area shall form a single parcel of land, except
where the Board of Aldermen determines that two (2) or more parcels or a linear
easement across multiple parcels would be in the best interest of the public
given the type and distribution of space needed to serve the development. In
such cases, the Board may require that such parcels be connected by a dedicated
strip of land or easement, be at least twenty (20) feet in width, or that an
easement for access be granted.
         b.   Usability. At least one-half of the total land dedicated shall be
located outside of areas of special flood hazard, alluvial soils, lakes or
other water bodies, and at least seventy-five (75%) percent of the total land
dedicated shall be located outside of wetlands. Land dedicated only for
greenways need not follow the requirements of this subsection.
         c.   Shape. Dedicated land shall be sufficiently shaped and
proportioned to be usable for proposed recreational facilities and activities,
such as greenways, athletic fields, playground area, tennis courts, swimming
pool, etc.
         d.   Access. Public access to dedicated land shall be provided by
adjoining public street frontage or by a dedicated public easement which
connects the dedicated land to a public street or right-of-way, or from
adjacent property, as determined by the board of aldermen.
         e.   Greenway dedications shall be a minimum of twenty five (25) feet
in width. (Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3028 Cluster mailbox units.
   If required by the United States Postal Service (USPS), Cluster Box Units
(CBUs) for residential developments shall meet or exceed the standards of the
USPS and meet the following additional requirements. In case of regulatory
conflicts, any requirement of the USPS shall supersede regulations of this
Chapter.
   (a)   Location. CBUs shall be located as follows:
      (1)   Within a primary building, such as an apartment building, or an
accessory facility serving the development such as a clubhouse;
      (2)   Stand-alone within twenty-five (25) feet of the parking area
servicing such buildings or facilities; and/or
      (3)   Located along right-of-way and common access drives at least fifty
(50) feet interior to the development.
   (b)   Parking and access.
      (1)   Vehicular access.
         a.   Each CBU shall have a minimum of two (2) parking spaces provided,
with at least one (1) space meeting handicap accessibility requirements.
         b.   No parking is required for CBU located within a facility with
parking or within twenty-five (25) feet of a parking area serving another
facility.
            1.   Such facilities include, but are not limited to, clubhouses,
leasing offices, and parking bays designated for visitor parking.
            2.   Such parking areas shall include a designated handicap
accessible parking space in a location meeting USPS requirements.
      (2)   Pedestrian access.
         a.   Walkways or sidewalks shall connect CBUs to parking areas and the
overall walkway and sidewalk system of the development.
         b.   All CBUs shall be accessed by walkways or sidewalks meeting
handicap accessibility width and paving requirements.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3029 Lighting.
   Levels of illumination to achieve a certain function or desired effect
should also reduce or eliminate the hazardous aspects and nuisance of glare and
light spillage. All exterior lighting, with the exception of street lighting,
that is used around buildings, recreation areas, parking lots, and signs, shall
be designed to protect against the spillage of light to adjacent properties.
   (a)   Outdoor lighting standards.
      (1)   Outdoor lighting shall not shine directly into the yard or into the
windows of an adjacent residence.
      (2)   Outdoor lighting shall be designed, located, and mounted at heights
no greater than eighteen (18) feet above grade for pedestrian lights, or
thirty-five (35) feet above grade for street or parking area lights.
      (3)   Light sources may be located within the perimeter landscaped area
and along pedestrian walkways providing provision (5) is met.
      (4)   All outdoor and parking lot lighting fixtures, including metal
halide, mercury vapor, fluorescent, induction, white high-pressure sodium, and
color-improved high- pressure sodium lamps used in non-cutoff fixtures shall be
coated with an internal white frosting inside the outer lamp envelope.
      (5)   All lighting must be located at least ten (10) feet from property
lines defining rear and side yards or required perimeter landscaped areas
required by this Chapter.
      (6)   All outdoor lighting shall be designed and located such that the
maximum illumination measured in foot-candles at the property line shall not
exceed one (1) foot candle. The average intensity illumination for outdoor
lighting shall not exceed four-foot candles in intensity (except where noted)
as measured at grade. Fixtures should be placed to provide uniform distribution
of light and to avoid intense lighting that produces excessive glare. General
parking lot lighting shall not exceed a maintained average of two (2) and one-
half foot-candles.
      (7)   Lighting fixtures scaled for pedestrian activities shall provide
for uniform lighting distribution to produce minimal shadows.
      (8)   Floodlights, spotlights, or any other similar lighting shall not be
used to illuminate buildings or other site features unless approved as an
integral architectural element on the development plan. On site lighting may be
used to accent architectural elements and not be used to illuminate entire
portions of building(s). Floodlights or other type of lighting attached to
light poles that illuminate the site and/or building(s) are prohibited.
      (9)   Outdoor illumination of building, landscaping, and signs:
         a.   Exterior lighting should be integrated with the architectural
character of the building. To avoid light spillage, only full cutoff fixtures
shall be used.
         b.   The unshielded outdoor illumination of any building or
landscaping is prohibited.
         c.   Lighting fixtures used to illuminate an outdoor advertising sign
either shall be by directed ground lighting sign or mounted on the top of the
sign and shall point downward and shall comply with shielding requirements.
         d.   Illumination of signs shall be limited to ten (10) lumens per
square foot.
      (10)   No flickering, rotating, or flashing lights, or search lights
shall be permitted.
      (11)   Wall packs on buildings may be used at entrances to a building to
light unsafe areas. They are not intended to draw attention to the building or
provide general building or site lighting. Wall packs on the exterior of the
building shall be fully shielded (true cut-off type-bulb or light source not
visible from off-site) to direct the light downward and be of low wattage
(preferably one hundred (100) watts or lower). Other accent lighting projected
onto buildings may be allowed provided that it is approved through the
development plan process.
      (12)   Gas station/convenience store aprons and canopies:
         a.   The lighting fixture bulbs shall be recessed into a canopy
ceiling so that the bottom of the fixture is flush with the ceiling so that
light is restrained to no more than eighty-five (85) degrees from vertical.
         b.   As an alternative to recessed ceiling lights, indirect lighting
may be used where the light is directed upward and then reflected down from the
underside of the canopy. In this case, light fixtures shall be shielded so that
direct illumination is focused exclusively on the underside of the canopy.
         c.   Lights shall not be mounted on the top or sides (facia) of the
canopy, and the sides of the canopy shall not be externally illuminated.
         d.   The lighting for new facilities (pump islands and under canopies)
shall have a minimum of one (1.0) foot-candle at grade and not exceed the
average horizontal illumination and cannot exceed ten (10) foot-candles at
grade level. These standards are based on the IESNA (Illuminating Engineering
Society of North America) RP-33, Lighting for Exterior Environments.
      (13)   Canopies used for building accents over doors, windows, etc. shall
not be internally lit (i.e. from underneath or behind the canopy).
   (b)   Design procedures. The maximum permitted illumination shall be
measured in average foot-candles from ground level in accordance to the
standards expressed in this Chapter. The following standards shall be required
of all exterior lighting with the exception of public street lighting.
The quantity of fixtures to be provided shall be based upon the desired level
of uniform illumination as established by the current standards of the IESNA.
Fixture locations should be chosen to minimize the hazards of glare.
   The level of illumination shall be based upon the primary activity in each
area to be lighted. The standards for various activities prescribed by the
following Illuminating Engineering Society chart represent a number of exterior
lighting uses for general reference. Footcandle designations represent
measurements for the average intensity at grade.
Table 5
Illumination Standards
Use Illumination (in Foot- Candles)
    Maximum (Glare) Minimum (Safety)
Use                                        Illumination (in Foot- Candles)
                                           Maximum (Glare) Minimum (Safety)
UTILITY LIGHTING                                           
Minimum visibility                         -               .5
Driving                                    1               .5
Pedestrian ways                            1               .5
General landscaped areas                   2               1
AREA LIGHTING                                              
Gas station and convenience store canopies 10              1
Parking lots                               4               1
BUILDING EXTERIORS                                         
Entrances (frequent use)                   6               2
Entrances (infrequent use)                 1               .5
Vital locations or structures              6               2
Building surroundings                      2               1
 
   (c)   Outdoor recreational lighting. Because of their unique requirements
for nighttime visibility and limited hours of operation, the lighting of active
recreation areas, such as for ball fields and tennis courts are not considered
in this Chapter. However, lighting fixtures for such uses shall be mounted and
aimed so that the illumination falls within the primary playing area and
immediate surroundings so that no direct light illumination is directed off
site. Lights shall be turned off within the end of any event.
   (d)   Street lighting. Street lighting shall be placed on all streets by the
developer to ensure for the safe use of streets by both cars and pedestrians.
All street lighting shall be placed in accordance with the following minimum
design standards:
      (1)   Minimum average streetlight spacing:
         a.   Single family homes and duplex lots (greater than one hundred
(100) feet wide): five hundred (500) feet.
         b.   Single family homes and duplex lots (less than one hundred (100)
feet wide): three hundred (300) feet.
         c.   Multi-family uses: one hundred fifty (150) feet.
         d.   All other uses: three hundred (300) feet.
      (2)   Preference in placement shall be given to street intersections and
street curves.
      (3)   Pedestrian lighting should be prioritized over automobile lighting.
Lighting should be placed in a manner to limit the casting of shadows on
sidewalks.
      (4)   All lighting shall utilize full-cut-off fixture.
      (5)   Alleys are excluded from the spacing and placing requirements of
this chapter but are encouraged to be illuminated using private security
lights, wall packs, or similar low level decorative lighting.
      (6)   The requirement that streetlights be provided may be waived by the
approving authority in mountainous areas where streetlights would be visible
from the valley floor.
   (e)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   Measurement. Light level measurements shall be made at the property
line of the property upon which the light to be measured is being generated. If
measurement on private property is not possible or practical, light level
measurements may be made at the boundary of the public street right-of-way that
adjoins the property. Measurements shall be made at finished grade (ground
level), with the light registering portion of the meter held parallel to the
ground and pointing upward. Lighting levels are to be measured in foot-candles
with a direct reading, portable light meter. The meter sensor shall be mounted
not more than six inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position.
Light levels are specified, calculated, and measured in foot-candles (FC). All
FC values in the Illumination Standards table in Section 9-3028(b) are in
maintained foot-candles.
      (2)   Lighting plan.
         a.   A lighting plan shall be submitted with all land development
permit applications proposing the establishment of outdoor lighting.
            1.   A Site Plan drawn to scale showing building(s), landscaping,
parking areas, and proposed exterior lighting fixtures.
            2.   Location of all post, canopy, supports, and light fixtures,
including the height of each fixture, for any building, structure, parking,
display and loading areas.
            3.   Specifications of the illuminating devices, lamps, supports,
and other devices, including designation as IESNA "cut-off" fixtures. This
description may include but is not limited to manufacturers catalog cuts,
enlarged, or reduced to the correct scale of the Site Plan, and drawings
including sections where required.
            4.   Locations of all pole mounted and building mounted fixtures
and a numerical 25-foot by 25-foot grid of lighting levels, in footcandles,
that the fixtures will produce on the ground (photometric report). The
photometric report will indicate the minimum and maximum foot-candle levels
within the lighted area of the site. The minimum (lowest number) is usually at
the outer edges of the illuminated area or between two (2) fixtures. The
average light level is determined by adding the foot-candle value of all the
points in the grid and dividing by the total number of points. This information
is available from the manufacturer of the specified fixture.
         b.   The above required plans and descriptions shall be sufficiently
complete to enable the Administrator to readily determine compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter.
         c.   An isolux lighting plan is also permitted in fulfillment of this
section provided that it indicates the foot-candles at grade by contour diagram
or grid points that cover the site.
   (f)   Exceptions. The following types of lighting are exempt from these
requirements:
      (1)   Lighting of the United States of America or State of North Carolina
flags and other non-commercial flags expressing constitutionally protected
speech.
      (2)   Circus, fair, carnival, or other similar civic/community events.
      (3)   Construction and emergency lighting are exempt from the provisions
of this Chapter provided said lighting is temporary and is discontinued
immediately upon completion of the construction work or abatement of the
emergency necessitating said lighting.
      (4)   Underwater lighting used for illumination of swimming pools and
fountains is exempt from shielding standards.
      (5)   Religious/holiday decorations lighting (i.e. Christmas trees and
lighting).
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
ARTICLE E
Common Ownership
Section 9-3030 Ownership and maintenance of open space and preserved areas.
   (a)   General. All existing open spaces, recreation areas, environmental
features, or landscaping/preservation required for or by the regulations
contained in this Chapter or the Zoning Ordinance, shall be permanently
restricted from future development or removal except in cases where a tree is
diseased, severely damaged, or dead, where maintenance and upgrade is required,
or where improvements to open space and recreation are related to passive or
active recreation and permitted by ordinance.
   (b)   Ownership/maintenance options. The following methods may be used,
either individually or in combination, to own and maintain areas designated for
open space, recreation, stormwater management facilities, environmental
resources, landscape, or preserved trees. Ownership methods shall conform to
the following:
      (1)   Homeowner’s Association. (Preferred) Open space, recreation,
preserved tree areas, buffer yards, and any additional common area may be held
in common ownership by a Homeowner’s Association in accordance with Section
9-3029 and the following:
         a.   The applicant shall provide the municipality, for its approval, a
description of the organization of the proposed association, including its
bylaws, and all documents governing ownership, maintenance, and restrictions
for the area to be preserved.
         b.   The proposed association shall be established by the owner or
applicant and shall be operating (with financial subsidization by the owner or
applicant, if necessary) before the sale of any dwelling units in the
development.
         c.   Membership in the association shall be automatic (mandatory) for
all purchasers of dwelling units therein and their successors in title.
         d.   The association shall be responsible for maintenance, tax, and
insurance of the open space, grounds, equipment, facilities, trails, fences,
landscaping, trees, etc.
         e.   The by-laws shall confer legal authority on the association to
place a lien on the real property of any member(s) falling delinquent in their
dues. Such dues shall be paid with the accrued interest before the lien may be
lifted.
         f.   Written notice of any proposed ownership transfer, by the
association, of subject trees, to another entity permitted in this Chapter, or
the assumption of maintenance of such lands must be given to all members of the
association and to the Town no less than thirty (30) days prior to such event.
         g.   The association shall have adequate staff to administer,
maintain, and operate the lands.
      (2)   Fee simple dedication to the Town. The Town of Canton may, but
shall not be required to, accept any portion or portions of the open space,
recreation area, stormwater management facility, trail, preserved tree areas,
buffers, rights-of-way, easements, or additional lands provided the following
conditions are met:
         a.   There are no acquisition or immediate improvement costs to the
Town.
         b.   The Town agrees to and has access to maintain such lands,
facilities, tree(s), landscaping, water features, etc.
         c.   All preserved trees and newly planted trees, meeting ordinance
requirements for buffer or street trees and that are located within the rights-
of-way of a municipal roadway, shall become the responsibility of the Town of
Canton.
      (3)   Private conservation organization. With permission of the Town, an
owner may transfer either fee simple title of the open space or easements to a
private nonprofit conservation organization, provided that:
         a.   The conservation organization is acceptable to the Town of Canton
and is a bona fide conservation organization intended to exist indefinitely.
         b.   The conveyance contains appropriate provisions for proper
reverter or retransfer in the event that the organization becomes unwilling or
unable to continue carrying out its functions.
         c.   The open space and recreation areas are permanently preserved
from future development and environmental features and tree preservation,
buffers and landscaping are preserved from removal through a conservation
easement and the Town of Canton is given the ability to enforce these
restrictions and impose penalties.
         d.   A maintenance agreement acceptable to the Town of Canton is
established between the owner and the organization.
      (4)   Dedication of easements to the Town of Canton. The Town may accept
the dedication of easements for any portion of the open space, recreation area,
stormwater management facility, environmental features, or preserved trees and
buffers. In such cases, these features remain in the ownership of the
individual property owner, homeowner's association, private conservation
organization, while the easements and development rights are held by the
municipality. In addition, the following regulations shall apply:
         a.   There shall be no cost of acquisition to the Town.
         b.   A satisfactory maintenance agreement shall be reached between the
owner and the municipality.
      (5)   Individual landowner with deed restriction. In instances where a
residential subdivision does not occur, the landowner manages the property, or
if preserved trees or buffer yards, are not located in areas designated as open
space and located on individual lots without easements, the property owner will
be responsible for the care and maintenance of the open space, recreation area,
or preserved and installed tree(s). Further, the open space and/or preserved
areas must be protected by deed restrictions as outlined in subsection (c)
below.
   (c)   Deed restrictions.
      (1)   Requirements.
         a.   Where open space or recreation areas, required by this Chapter or
the Zoning Ordinance, are provided, the area shall be deed restricted against
development with the exception of facilities and improvements related to the
nature of the space (i.e., nature trail, benches, playground, etc.)
         b.   Where the trees, required for preservation by the regulations
contained in this Chapter or the Zoning Ordinance, are located on property held
in private ownership by individuals or a Homeowner's Association, the lot on
which the tree(s) are located shall be deed restricted against any future
removal of such trees, except in cases of disease, severe damage, or death.
      (2)   For single-family, residential uses, buffers, as required by this
Chapter or the Zoning Ordinance, are not to be placed on individual residential
lots except in the absence of a Homeowner's Association. Where no HOA is
present and when approved by the Administrator, the buffers may be held in the
ownership of individual property owners of a residential development/
subdivision provided deed restrictions subject to the following requirements
are provided:
         a.   Must be approved by the Town of Canton Board of Aldermen.
         b.   Restrictions meeting Town specifications must be placed in the
deed for each property that has buffer yards within its boundaries. The
restrictions shall provide for the continuance of the buffer yard, as shown on
the approved plans, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
         c.   It will be clearly stated in the individual deeds that the
maintenance responsibility lies with the individual property owner.
      (3)   For multi-family and nonresidential uses, open space, recreation
areas, buffer yards, areas of natural resource features, and/or preserved trees
may be held with the ownership of the parcel / development provided the
preserved areas are deed restricted to ensure their protection and continuance,
as shown on the approved plans and that a maintenance agreement suitable to the
municipality is provided.
   (d)   Maintenance and cost. Unless otherwise agreed to by the Town, the cost
and responsibility of maintaining open space, recreation areas, environmental
areas, stormwater management facility, buffers, landscaping and/or tree
preservation areas required by the regulations contained in this Chapter or the
Zoning Ordinance, shall be borne by the property owner, Homeowner’s
Association, or conservation organization:
      (1)   The applicant shall, at the time of the initial plan submission,
provide a plan for maintenance of such preserved areas in a form acceptable to
the Town.
      (2)   In the event that the organization established to preserve and/or
maintain the preserved areas or any successor organization thereto, fails to
maintain all or any portion thereof in reasonable order and condition, the Town
may assume responsibility for maintenance, in which case any assets and general
funds of the organization may be forfeited, any permits may be revoked or
suspended, and penalties may be issued, including but not limited to the
provision of replacement trees, mitigation, and/or fines.
      (3)   The municipality may enter the premises and take corrective action,
including extended maintenance. The costs of such corrective action may be
charged to the property owner, Homeowner’s Association, conservation
organization, or individual property owners who make up a Homeowner's
Association and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs
shall become a lien on said properties.
   (e)   Documentation. Documents providing for the establishment of a property
owners' association or similar legal entity in accord with this section shall
be submitted and approved by the Town Attorney before any plat for the
development is recorded. The review by the Attorney shall be limited to
ensuring that the property owners' association or similar legal entity is
established so that it has the clear legal authority to maintain and exercise
control over the common areas and facilities, including the power to compel
contributions from subdivision residents to cover their proportionate shares of
the costs associated with the maintenance of the common areas and facilities.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3031 Property Owners' Associations.
   (a)   An Owners' Association shall be established to fulfill requirements of
the NC Condominium Act, NC Planned Community Act, or to accept conveyance and
maintenance of all common elements (common areas) within a development. The
Owners' Association shall be in legal existence prior to the conveyance, lease-
option, or other long-term transfer of control of any unit or lot in the
development.
   (b)   Where developments have common elements serving more than one (1)
dwelling unit, these areas shall be conveyed to the Owners' Association, in
which all owners of lots in the development shall be members. All areas other
than public street rights-of-way, other areas dedicated to the Town, and lots
shall be designated as common elements. In a condominium development, the
common elements shall be platted in accordance with the NC Condominium Act. In
other developments, the fee-simple title shall be conveyed by the subdivider or
developer to the Owners' Association prior to the sale of the first lot.
   (c)   Common elements shall not subsequently be subdivided or conveyed by
the Owners' Association unless a revised Preliminary Plat and a revised Final
Plat showing such subdivision or conveyance have been submitted and approved by
the Board of Aldermen. In no such instance, shall the common elements be
reduced to an area that is less than what is required for the subject
development by this Chapter or the Zoning Ordinance, such as required open
space, buffers, or recreation areas.
   (d)   Developments, whether including different land uses, different types
of housing, or simply different sections, shall hold the number of Owners'
Associations to a minimum. An association may establish different categories of
membership, different budgets for the categories, and different rates of
assessment when different kinds of services are provided to different
categories. Smaller associations under an umbrella (master) association are
permitted.
   (e)   A development involving only two (2) units attached by a party wall
(or two (2) separate walls back-to-back) shall not be required to have common
elements or an Owners' Association. Such developments without an Owners'
Association shall establish a binding agreement between owners to govern any
party walls and to ensure reciprocal easement rights needed for maintenance.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
ARTICLE F
Enforcement
Section 9-3032 Notice to comply.
   (a)   Administrator authority. The provisions of this Chapter shall be
enforced by the Board of Aldermen and the Administrator through their authority
to abate any violations, enjoin, restrain, and prosecute any person violating
this Chapter pursuant to North Carolina law.
   (b)   Inspections. Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant
to a development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance
with applicable State and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In
exercising this power, the staff is authorized to enter any premises within the
jurisdiction of the local government at all reasonable hours for the purposes
of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
   (c)   Complaints regarding violations. Whenever a violation of this Chapter
occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint.
Any written complaint stating fully the cause and basis thereof shall be filed
with the Administrator who shall properly record such complaint, immediately
investigate, and take action as provided by this Chapter.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Upon discovering a violation of this Chapter, the
Administrator shall issue a written "Notice of Violation" containing the
following information:
      (1)   That the land, building, structure, sign, or use is in violation of
this Chapter;
      (2)   A description of the violation and citation of the relevant
Sections of the Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances;
      (3)   Specific measures necessary to remedy the violation;
      (4)   The time within which the violation shall be corrected.
      (5)   The Notice of Violation shall be in writing and shall be delivered
to the holder of the development approval and to the owner of the property
involved (if that person is not the holder of the development approval) by
personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail or by conspicuously
posting on the property. The responsible party shall remedy the violation
within the time specified in the Notice of Violation. Appeals of the Notice of
Violation may be taken to the Zoning Board of Adjustment and any further
enforcement shall have stayed pending hearing of the appeal.
   (e)   Responsible party. The owner of any land, building, structure, sign,
land use or part thereof, and any occupant, architect, builder, contractor,
agent or another person, who participates or acts in concert, assists, directs,
creates or maintains any condition that is in violation of this Chapter may be
held responsible for the violation and subject to the civil penalties and
remedies provided therein.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3033 Stop work orders.
   Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation pursuant to this Chapter
is undertaken in substantial violation of any State or local law, or in a
manner that endangers life or property, the Administrator may order the
specific part of the work or activity that is in violation or presents such a
hazard to be immediately stopped.
   (a)   The order shall be in writing, directed to the person doing the work
or activity, and shall state the specific work or activity to be stopped, the
reasons therefore, and the conditions under which the work or activity may be
resumed.
   (b)   A copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the owner of the property involved (if that person
is not the holder of the development approval) by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first-class mail. The person or persons delivering the stop-work
order shall certify to the local government that the order was delivered, and
that certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (c)   Appeals and violations of stop works orders. Except as provided by
G.S. 160D-1112 and G.S. 160D-1208, a stop-work order may be appealed pursuant
to G.S. 160D-405. No further work or activity shall take place in violation of
a stop-work order pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop-work
order shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3034   Revocation of permits.
   In addition to initiation of enforcement actions under G.S. 160D-404,
development approvals may be revoked by the Town by notifying the holder in
writing stating the reason for the revocation. The Town shall follow the same
development review and approval process required for issuance of the
development approval, including any required notice or hearing, in the review
and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development approvals shall be
revoked for any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of any
applicable local development regulation or any State law delegated to the local
government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the State; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any development
approval mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3035 Remedies.
   Any development regulation adopted in accordance with G.S. Chapter 160D may
be enforced by any remedy provided in G.S. 160A-175 or G.S. 153A-123. If a
building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is used
or developed in violation of this Chapter or of any development regulation, the
Town may take appropriate action or proceedings.
   (a)   No civil penalty shall be assessed under this Section until a Notice
of Violation has been issued to the responsible party as provided above. If
after receiving a Notice of Violation the responsible party fails to correct
the violation, a civil penalty shall be imposed in the form of a citation. Such
citation shall be in writing and shall be delivered by certified or registered
mail to the holder of the development approval and to the owner of the property
involved (if that person is not the holder of the development approval), by
personal service, or by conspicuously posting on the property. The citation
shall state the civil penalty fee and shall direct the violator to pay the
civil penalty within ten (10) business days of the date of issuance. Failure to
pay the civil penalty shall subject the responsible party, in addition to other
remedies, to the payment of reasonable attorney's fees, including the principal
amount of the penalty and interest accruing thereon.
   (b)   Upon expiration of the time limit set forth by the Administrator in
the Notice of Violation, civil penalties as set by the Town of Canton fee
schedule shall be assessed per violation. Assessment of a civil penalty and
payment of that penalty does not negate the responsible party from correcting
the violation. Civil penalties paid within ten (10) business days shall be
reduced by fifty (50%) percent if the violation has been corrected.
   (c)   Civil penalties assessed for violations of this Chapter shall
constitute a lien against the property upon which the violation is or has been
conducted.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other remedies of civil penalties imposed for
violations of this Chapter, in the event that the Town files suit to enforce
any section of this Chapter and prevails in such suit, the entity found to be
in violation shall be responsible for reasonable attorney's fees expended by
the Town to enforce such Ordinance.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
ARTICLE G
Definitions
Section 9-3036 Word usage.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for purposes
of this Chapter, have the meanings given herein:
   (a)   Words used in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural
include the singular.
   (b)   Words in the present tense include the future.
   (c)   The word "person," "subdivider," "owner" or "applicant" includes a
corporation and a partnership as well as an individual.
   (d)   The word "building" means "structure" and shall be construed as if
followed by the words "or part thereof."
   (e)   The word "street" includes "road," "roadway," "alley," and "highway"
and shall mean the whole or any part thereof, and shall include bridge or
culvert, cartway, gutter, curb, sidewalk, and the whole legal width of the
right-of-way.
   (f)   The word "lot" includes "plot" and "parcel."
   (g)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory; the word "may" is
permissive.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-3037 Definitions of terms.
   For purposes of this Chapter, certain words or terms used herein shall be
defined as follows:
   (a)   Administrative decision. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
this Chapter or other development regulations.
   (b)   Administrator. Person or persons appointed by the Board of Aldermen to
implement this Chapter. May also be referred to as staff.
   (c)   Board of Aldermen. The Town of Canton Board of Aldermen. The local,
elected governing body of the Town of Canton, NC.
   (d)   Building setback line. A line delineating the minimum distance between
the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or other
structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided.
   (e)   Development. Any of the following:
      (1)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
      (2)   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land.
      (3)   The subdivision of land as defined in N.C.G.S. 160D-802.
      (4)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land.
   (f)   Development Plan. A scaled drawing which represents an existing or
proposed development. For purposes of this Chapter, Development Plans may be a
Preliminary Plat, a Site Plan, a Master Plan, or a Final Plat. Construction
Drawings and As-Builts may also be classified as Development Plans.
   (g)   Easement. A grant by the property owner for use, by the public, a
corporation, or person(s) of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   (h)   Extraterritorial jurisdiction. That land lying within one (1) mile in
all directions of the corporate limits of the Town, as established by
ordinance.
   (i)   Group project. A development comprising two (2) or more buildings such
as a group of apartments, and the land is not subdivided into the customary
street and lots.
   (j)   Lot. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended
as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both. The word "lot"
includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
      (1)   Double frontage lot. A lot of the same depth as the width of a
block containing two (2) tiers of lots and which is accessible from both of the
streets upon which it fronts.
      2)   Single tier lot. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or a nonresidential use and to which access from
the rear is usually prohibited.
   (k)   Master Plan. A Preliminary Plat or Site Plan that details the overall
plan of a multi-phase development, including site details for each proposed
phase. The Master Plan may also be a single-sheet in subsequent Preliminary
Plat, Site Plan, or Construction Drawing application based on an approved
Master Plan Final Plat.
   (l)   Official maps or plans. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the
Board of Aldermen as a guide for the development of the Town and surrounding
area.
   (m)   Planning Board. The Town of Canton Planning Board.
   (n)   Plat, Final. The final map representing a tract of land showing the
boundaries and location of individual properties, streets, and easements,
recorded by the Haywood County Register of Deeds.
   (o)   Plat, Preliminary. A scaled subdivision plan, indicting the
approximate proposed layout of a subdivision and its site features, including
but not limited to existing conditions, lot layout and building envelopes,
roadways, sidewalks, buffers, conservation areas, parking, open space, and
recreation areas, as a basis of study and consideration prior to the
installation of improvements.
   (p)   Run with the land. A covenant, restriction, or permission that is
binding on the present and all future owners of the property.
   (q)   Site Plan. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the
relationship between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or
structures on the lot. The site plan may include site-specific details such as
building areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and
street rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations,
parking, access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are
depicted to show compliance with all legally required development regulations
that are applicable to the project and the site plan review.
   (r)   Street. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic.
      (1)   Thoroughfare. A traffic artery designed primarily to carry heavy
volumes of through vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Major street. A street designed to carry heavy volumes of local
vehicular traffic.
      (3)   Collector street. A street designed to carry medium volumes of
vehicular traffic, provide access to the major street system and collect the
vehicular traffic from the intersecting minor streets.
      (4)   Minor street. A street which provides vehicular access to the
abutting properties.
      (5)   Cul-de-sac. A street permanently terminated by a turn-around.
      (6)   Marginal access street. A minor street which parallels and is
adjacent to a major street or highway; and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
   (s)   Subdivider. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops
any land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   (t)   Subdivision. A "subdivision" shall include all divisions of a tract or
parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions,
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or building development,
and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a new
street or a change in existing streets; provided, however, that the following
shall not be included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations
prescribed by this Chapter.
      (1)   The combination or recombination or portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the Town as
required by this Chapter.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten (10) acres where
no street right- of-way is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public system corridors.
      (4)   The division of a tract of land in single ownership whose entire
area is not greater than two (2) acres into not more than three (3) lots, where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved, and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the Town as required by this Chapter.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under Chapter 29
of the General Statutes.
   (u)   Subdivision, Major. A subdivision which involves new streets, roads or
right-of-way dedication and where five (5) or more lots result after the
subdivision is complete; or any subdivision which does not qualify as exempt;
or any subdivision considered an Expedited Subdivision or a Minor Subdivision.
   (v)   Subdivision, Minor. Subdivision involving no new streets, roads, or
right-of-way dedication and where four (4) or fewer lots result after the
subdivision is completed.
   (w)   Substantial improvement. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of
a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty (50%) percent of the
market value of the structure either (1) before the improvement or repair is
started, or (2) if damaged, the value of the structure to be restored prior to
being damaged.
   (x)   Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA). A study that assesses the impacts of a
proposed development on the existing and future multi-modal transportation
network. The study must recommend mitigation measures for the anticipated
impacts and must analyze the adequacy of the development's planned access
points within the existing and planned road network.
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
APPENDIX A:
   Certifications
   (a)   Certificate of Approval by the Planning Board.
   I,                  , Chairman of the Planning Board, hereby certify that
the said Board fully approved the final plat of the subdivision entitled
                   on the      day of              .
   (b)   Certificate of Ownership and Dedication.
   I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are), the owner(s) of the property shown
and described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with
my (our) free consent, establish minimum building lines, and dedicate all
streets, alleys, walks, parks and other sites to public or private use as
noted. Further, I (we) certify the land as shown hereon is within the platting
jurisdiction of the Town of Canton, North Carolina.
                                                                   
Date            Owner
                                                        
               Owner
   (c)   Certificate of Accuracy.
   (As required under General Statutes 47-30 as amended)
                                                                   
Date            Engineer or Registered Surveyor
   (d)   Certification of the Approval of Private Water and Sewer Systems.
   I hereby certify that the water supply and sewage disposal system installed,
or proposed for installation in the subdivision entitled               fully
meets the requirements of the North Carolina State Health Department and are
hereby approved as shown.
                                                                   
Date            County Health Officer or his legal representative
   (e)   Certification of the Approval of the Installation and Construction of
Street, Utilities and Other Required Improvements.
   I hereby certify (1) that streets, utilities and other required improvements
have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to Town
specifications and standards in the subdivision entitled                    ,
or (2) that a guarantee of the installations of the required improvements in an
amount or manner satisfactory to the Town of Canton has been received.
                                                                
Date         Town Clerk
   (f)   Certificate of Approval for Recording Plat and Acceptance of
Dedications.
   I,                            the Town Clerk of the Town of Canton, North
Carolina, do certify that on the       day of            , 20   the Board of
Aldermen of the Town of Canton approved this final plat for recording and
accepted the dedication of streets, easements, rights-of-way and public parks
and other sites for public purposes as shown hereon, but assume no
responsibility to open or maintain the same until, in the opinion of the Board
of Aldermen of the Town of Canton, it is in the public interest to do so.
                                                                
Date         Town Clerk
   (Seal)
(Ord. of 7/28/22)
CHAPTER 4
Zoning
   Historical Cite: The provisions of this chapter are derived from an
ordinance adopted on March 22, 1977.
ARTICLE A General Provisions
Section
9-4001   Authority and enactment clause.
Section
9-4002   Short title.
Section
9-4003   Jurisdiction.
Section
9-4004   Definitions of terms.
Section
9-4005   Expansion of extraterritorial jurisdiction.
Section
9-4006   Comprehensive plan.
Section
9-4007   Grant of power.
Section
9-4008   Exemption of bona fide farms.
Section 9-4009 through 9-4010 reserved.
ARTICLE B Establishment of Districts
Section
9-4011   Use districts.
Section
9-4012   District boundaries.
Section
9-4013   Rules governing boundaries.
Section
9-4014   Conditional districts.
Section 9-4015 through 9-4020 reserved.
ARTICLE C Use Requirements by District
Section
9-4021   Intent.
Section
9-4022   R-1 single family residential district.
Section
9-4023   R-2 general residential district.
Section
9-4024   C-1 central business district.
Section
9-4025   C-2 general business district.
Section
9-4026   C-3 neighborhood business district.
Section
9-4027   C-4 highway business district.
Section
9-4028   I-1 light industrial district.
Section
9-4029   I-2 heavy industrial district.
Section
9-4030   F-1 floodway district.
Section
9-4031   W-P watershed protection district.
Section
9-4032   C-A Pigeon River Critical Area Watershed Protection District.
Section
9-4033   M.H. Manufactured Home Overlay District.
Section 9-4034 through 9-4040 reserved.
ARTICLE D Area, Yard, and Height Requirements
Section
9-4041   Schedule of requirements.
Section 9-4042 through 9-4049 reserved.
ARTICLE E Application of Regulations
Section
9-4050   Wireless Communication Facilities.
Section
9-4051   Use.
Section
9-4052   Height and density.
Section
9-4053   Lot size.
Section
9-4054   Yard use limitations.
Section
9-4055   Only one principal building on any lot.
Section
9-4056   Parking of vehicles in residential districts.
Section
9-4057   Flea markets.
Section 9-4058 through 9-4060 reserved.
ARTICLE F Nonconforming Use and Off-Street Parking and Loading
Section
9-4061   Nonconforming use.
Section
9-4062   Off-street automobile parking and storage.
Section
9-4063   Off-street loading and unloading space.
Section 9-4064 through 9-4070 reserved.
ARTICLE G Exceptions and Modifications
Section
9-4071   Lot of record.
Section
9-4072   Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
Section
9-4073   Height limitations.
Section
9-4074   Visibility at intersections.
Section
9-4075   Projections into required open space.
Section
9-4076   Group projects.
Section
9-4077   Floodway fringe areas.
Section
9-4078   Gasoline service or filling stations.
Section
9-4079   Signs, billboards and other advertising structures.
Section
9-4080   Temporary mobile home.
Section
9-4081   Street right-of-way.
Section
9-4082   Side yard setback for dwellings.
Section 9-4083 through 9-4090 reserved.
ARTICLE H Administration, Enforcement and Penalties
Section
9-4091   Intent.
Section
9-4092   Administrator.
Section
9-4093   Development approval required.
Section
9-4094   Application for development approval.
Section
9-4095   Certificate of occupancy required.
Section
9-4096   Determinations.
Section
9-4097   Administrative modifications.
Section
9-4098   Violations and remedies.
Section
9-4099   Revocation of development approvals.
Section 9-4110 reserved.
ARTICLE I Zoning Board of Adjustment
Section
9-4111   Establishment of Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Section
9-4112   Jurisdiction and decisions of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Section
9-4113   Proceedings of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Section
9-4114   Powers and duties of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Section
9-4115   Quasi-judicial hearings.
Section
9-4116   Appeals from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Section
9-4117   Fees for variances, appeals and special use permits.
Section 9-4118 through 9-4130 reserved.
ARTICLE J Amendments
Section
9-4131   Board of Aldermen.
Section
9-4132   Procedures of adopting, amending or repealing development regulations.
Section
9-4133   Fees for amendments.
Section 9-4134 through 9-4139 reserved.
ARTICLE K Miscellaneous Provisions
Section
9-4140   Vested rights.
Section
9-4141   Permit choice.
Section
9-4142   Conflict with other regulations.
Section
9-4143   Re-enactment and repeal of existing zoning ordinance.
Section
9-4144   Validity.
Section
9-4145   Penalty.
Section
9-4146   Effective date.
ARTICLE A
General Provisions
Section 9-4001 Authority and enactment clause.
   The Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton, in pursuance of the authority
granted by the General Statutes of North Carolina, particularly Chapter 160D-
101, and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience,
order, prosperity or the general welfare of the Town; securing safety from
fire, panic, and other dangers; preventing the over-crowding of land; avoiding
undue concentration of population; facilitating the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, and other public requirements;
conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of
land and buildings throughout the Town, all in accordance with a comprehensive
plan; the Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton, North Carolina, does ordain
and enact into law the following articles and sections.
(Amended by Ord. of 12/10/20; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4002 Short title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of the
Town of Canton, North Carolina.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4003 Jurisdiction.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits and
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Canton as established
on the official zoning map, Town of Canton, North Carolina. The map and all
other explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this
chapter; it shall be on file in the office of the Town clerk.
(Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4004 Definitions of terms.
   (a)   For the purpose of interpreting this chapter, certain words or terms
are herein defined. Except as defined herein, all other words used in this
chapter shall have their customary dictionary definition.
   (b)   Interpretation of certain terms and words.
   (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural number include the singular.
   (3)   The word person includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, corporation, trust and company, as well as an individual.
   (4)   The word lot includes the word plot or parcel.
   (5)   The word building includes the word structure.
   (6)   The word shall is always mandatory and not directory.
   (7)   The words used or occupied as applied to any land or buildings shall
be construed to include the words intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied
   (8)   The word map, zoning map, or Canton Zoning Map shall mean the
“Official Zoning Map of Canton, North Carolina.”
   (c)   Definitions.
   (1)   Administrative decision. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
this Chapter. These are sometimes referred to as "ministerial" decisions or
"administrative determinations."
   (2)   Administrative hearing. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   (3)   Administrator. Person or persons appointed or assigned by the Board of
Aldermen to implement this Chapter. May also be referred to as staff.
   (4)   Antenna Array. One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used
for the transmission or reception of wireless communication signals, which may
include omni- directional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel), or
parabolic antenna (disc).
(Ord. of 8/24/99)
   (5)   Attached wireless communication facility. An antenna array that is
attached to an existing building or structure (attachment structure), which
structures shall include but not be limited to utility poles, signs, water
towers, rooftops, towers with any accompanying pole or device which attaches
the antenna array to the existing building or structure and associated
connection cables, and an equipment facility which may be located higher inside
or outside of the attachment structure.
(Ord. of 8/27/99)
   (6)   Beach bingo games. Bingo games that have prizes of $10 or less, or
merchandise that is not redeemable for cash and that have a value of $10 or
less.
   (7)   Bedroom. A fully enclosed interior room as shown on the building plan
for the structure having, as a minimum, a doorway, window and closet.
   (8)   Billboard. See Sign, outdoor advertising.
   (9)   Boardinghouse. A building where, for compensation, lodging and/or
meals are provided for not more than 14 persons and not less than 4 persons.
   (10)   Bona fide farm. Agricultural uses which, for purposes of determining
whether a property is being used for bona fide farm purposes, may provide any
of the following:
   a.   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department of
Revenue.
   b.   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present-use value program pursuant to G.S.
105-277.3.
   c.   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F from the owner's or
operator's most recent federal income tax return.
   d.   A forest management plan.
   (11)   Building. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering
any use or occupancy.
   (12)   Building, accessory. A detached building subordinate to the main
building on a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or
principal building located on the same lot therewith.
   (13)   Building, principal. A building in which is conducted the principal
use on the lot on which the building is located.
   (14)   Building setback line. A line delineating the minimum distance
between the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or
other structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided.
   (15)   Child care center (more than 8 children). An individual, agency, or
organization providing supervision or care on a regular basis for more than
eight (8) children who are not related by blood or marriage to, and who are not
the legal wards or foster children of, the supervising adults; and who are not
residents in the center. Such center shall be designed and approved to
accommodate the number of children attending and/or enrolled at the center
during hours of operation, based on North Carolina state regulations. For the
purpose of this chapter, child care centers are not allowed as an accessory to
residential use. (Ord. of 12/10/15)
   (16)   Commercial recreation center. Any building used primarily for
commercial recreation purposes. Commercial recreation purposes include such
uses as coin-operated pool, bumper pool tables, various types of pinball games,
air hockey games, and similar types of non-gambling games and activities
operated for a profit designed for the amusement and entertainment of the
general public. Commercial recreation centers shall not contain any non-coin
operated regulation size pool or billiard tables.
(Ord. of 2/28/78)
   (17)   Conditional zoning. A legislative zoning map amendment with site-
specific conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
   (18)   Construction office, temporary. A structure, housing the field office
operations for the construction of a building or group of buildings being built
simultaneously. The temporary construction office shall be located on the
actual construction site and must be removed immediately upon completion of
construction.
   (19)   Customary home occupation. Any use conducted entirely within a
dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and does not change the character thereof, and in connection with which there
is no display, and no person, not a resident on the premises, is employed
specifically in connection with the activity, except that not more than one
assistant may be employed by the following home occupations: lawyer, physician,
dentist and chiropractor. Provided further that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except such as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over 25 percent of the total floor space of any
structure is used for home occupations.
   (20)   Determination. A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision.
   (21)   Developer. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
   (22)   Development. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term
means any of the following:
   a.   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
   b.   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land.
   c.   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S.160D-802.
   d.   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land.
   This definition does not alter the scope of regulatory authority granted by
this Chapter.
   (23)   Development approval. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval
made pursuant to G.S. 160D, that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or
development proposal. Development approvals include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits, variances, and
certificates of appropriateness. The term also includes all other regulatory
approvals required by regulations adopted pursuant to G.S. 160D, including plat
approvals, permits issued, development agreements entered into, and building
permits issued.
   (24)   Development regulation. A unified development ordinance, zoning
regulation, subdivision regulation, erosion and sedimentation control
regulation, floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation, mountain ridge
protection regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless
telecommunication facility regulation, historic preservation or landmark
regulation, housing code, State Building Code enforcement, or any other
regulation adopted pursuant to G.S. 160D, this Chapter, or a local act or
charter that regulates land use or development.
   (25)   Dwelling. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home,
or part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so
used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith.
   (26)   Dwelling unit. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   (27)   Dwelling, single- family. A building arranged or designed to be
occupied exclusively by one family.
   a.   Attached. A residential structure on an individual lot, designed to
house a single-family unit, with a private outside entrance and sharing at
least one common wall with another unit.
   b.   Detached. A residential structure on an individual lot, designed to
house a single-family unit, with private outside entrance, but without common
walls between the dwellings.
   (28)   Dwelling, single-family. A building arranged or designed to be
occupied exclusively by one family.
   (29)   Dwelling, two-family. A building arranged or designed to be occupied
by two families living independently of each other.
   (30)   Dwelling, multi-family. A building or portion thereof used or
designed as a residence for three or more families living independently of each
other and doing their cooking therein, including apartments, apartment hotels,
and group houses.
   (31)   Equipment facility. Any structure used to contain ancillary equipment
for a wireless communication facility which includes cabinets, shelters, a
building made out of an existing structure, pedestals, and other similar
structures.
(Ord. of 8/24/99)
   (32)   Evidentiary hearing. A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision
required by a development regulation adopted under this Chapter.
   (33)   Familial relationship. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law
relationships.
   (34)   Family Care Home. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care, and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident handicapped persons.
(Ord. of 9/15/87)
   (35)   Flea market. A swap shop, merchandise market, or similar activity by
whatever name, or those which involve the setting up and renting or charging
for booths, tables, platforms, racks, or similar display area for the purpose
of selling or buying merchandise, goods, material, products, or other items
offered for sale.
   (36)   Flood. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters
and/or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   (37)   Flood, base. The flood having a one (1) percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   (38)   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM). An official map of a community,
issued by FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk
premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   (39)   Floodplain.  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
from any source.
   (40)   Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land area that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   (41)   Group project. Two or more principal buildings constructed on a plot
of ground of at least two acres not subdivided into the customary streets and
lots. (May be permitted as a conditional district by the Board of Aldermen, but
shall comply with all the provisions set forth in Article I, Section 9-4076 of
this chapter.)
   (42)   Handicapped person. A person with a temporary or permanent physical,
emotional, or mental disability including, but not limited to, mental
retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments,
emotional disturbances, and orthopedic impairments, but not including mentally
ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. 122-58.2(1)b. (Ord.
of 9/15/87)
   (43)   Internet access/sweepstakes provider. Any for-profit business having
as an incidental or minor part (less than 15% of gross income) of its operation
the running of one or more games or processes with any of the following
characteristics:
   a.   For payment, directly or as an intended addition to the purchase of a
product, the customer receives one or more electronic sweepstakes tickets,
cards, tokens, or similar items entitling or empowering the customer to enter a
sweepstakes, and without which item the customer would be unable to enter the
sweepstakes, or
   b.   For payment, directly or as an intended addition to the purchase of a
product the customer can request a no purchase necessary free entry of one or
more sweepstakes tickets or other item entitling the customer to enter a
sweepstakes. (Ord. of 1/12/10)
   (44)   Junk yard. A lot, land or structure or part thereof, used primarily
for the collecting, storage and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or
discarded material; or for the collecting, dismantling; storage and/or
salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in operating condition and for the sale
of parts thereof.
   (45)   Legislative decision. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a
regulation under this Chapter or an applicable local act. The term also
includes the decision to approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement
consistent with the provisions of G.S. 160D, Article 10.
   (46)   Legislative hearing. A hearing to solicit public comment on a
proposed legislative decision.
   (47)   Lot. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a
building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the
customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   (48)   Lot depth. The mean horizontal distance between front and rear lot
lines.
   (49)   Lot of record. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the Office of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   (50)   Lot width. The distance between side lot lines measured at the
building line.
   (51)   Manufactured home. A dwelling unit that is not constructed in
accordance with the standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential
Building Code for one and two-family dwellings; is composed of one or more
components, each of which was substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant
and designed to be transported to the home site on its own chassis; and exceeds
40 feet in length and 8 feet in width. (Ord. of 7/26/94)
   (52)   Modular housing. A form of manufactured housing that meets the
construction standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Codes
for one and two-family dwellings regardless of how the unit or its components
are transported to the site.
(Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87)
   (53)   Nonconforming use. A structure or land lawfully occupied by an
existing use which does not conform with the permitted uses for the zoning
district in which it is situated, either at the effective date of this chapter,
or as the result of subsequent amendments to this chapter.
   (54)   Parking space. An area of not less than 10 feet by 20 feet, plus the
necessary access space. Parking space(s) shall be provided with vehicular
access to a street or alley; shall not be provided in a required front yard
area; and shall always be located outside the dedicated street right-of-way.
   (55)   Planning and development regulation jurisdiction. The geographic area
defined in this chapter within which the Town may undertake planning and apply
the development regulations authorized by this chapter.
   (56)   Pool or billiard hall. Any building used primarily for the purpose of
playing pool or billiards and related games on a non-coin operated regulation
size pool or billiard table.
(Ord. of 2/28/78)
   (57)   Quasi-judicial decision. A decision involving the finding of facts
regarding a specific application of a development regulation and that requires
the exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The
term includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special
use permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are quasi-judicial in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
   (58)   Recreational vehicle. Any vehicle, self-propelled or otherwise, which
is designed for transient, nonpermanent living, including structures mounted on
auto, truck, or bus bodies that are referred to as campers.
   (59)   Retail business. Establishments selling commodities in small
quantities to the consumer.
   (60)   Retail services. Establishments providing intangible needs for
immediate uses.
   (61)   Sign. A structure or part thereof displayed for the purpose of
conveying some information, knowledge or idea to the public.
   (62)   Sign, advertising. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than
on the premises and only incidentally on the premises if at all.
   (63)   Sign, advertising: incidental or accessory. A non- illuminated
professional or announcement sign not exceeding three square feet in area and
attached wholly to a building; or a non-illuminated sign pertaining only to the
rent, lease or sale of the premises upon which displayed and which does not
exceed four square feet in area except for multi-family complexes and mobile
home parks which may have non-flashing illuminated signs not exceeding 12
square feet; or a sign or bulletin board not exceeding 12 square feet in area
upon the premises of a church or other institution for the purpose of
displaying the name of the church or institution and the activities or services
may not have flashing illumination.
   (64)   Sign, business. A sign which directs attention to a business or
profession conducted, or to products sold, on the same lot.
   (65)   Sign, off premises church, lodge, club, or civic or fraternal
organization. A sign on which is displayed any information regarding a church,
lodge, club, or civic or fraternal organization and is not located on the same
lot or tract of land as the organization to which the sign refers.
   (66)   Sign, outdoor advertising. A type of advertising sign with overall
display dimensions not in excess of 12 by 25 feet (sometimes called
“Billboard”).
   (67)   Sleeping unit.  A room or space in which people sleep, which can also
include permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or
kitchen facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
   (68)   Special flood hazard area. The land in the floodplain subject to a
one percent (1%) or greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   (69)   Special use permit.  A permit issued to authorize development or land
uses in a particular zoning district upon presentation of competent, material,
and substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general
standards requiring that judgment and discretion be exercised as well as
compliance with specific standards. This definition includes permits previously
referred to as "conditional use permits" or "special exceptions."
   (70)   Street. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
   (71)   Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something
having more or less permanent location on the ground.
   (72)   Use. Any activity, occupation, business or operation carried on, or
intended to be carried on, in a building or structure or on a tract of land.
   (73)   Variance. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the this chapter
where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the this chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   (74)   Vehicle.  Any machine designed or intended to travel over land by
self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   (75)   Wireless communications. Any personal wireless communications
services as defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which includes
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently exist.
(Ord. of 8/24/99)
   (76)   Wireless communications facility. Any unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually
consisting of an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment facility and a
tower or other supporting structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
(Ord. of 8/24/99)
   (77)   Wireless communications tower. A structure designed and constructed
specifically to support an antenna array, and may include monopole, self
supporting (lattice) tower, guy-wire- supported tower and other similar
structures. Any device (attachment device) which is used to attach a wireless
communication facility to an existing building or structure (attachment
structure) shall be excluded from the definition of and regulations applicable
to wireless communications towers. (Ord. of 8/24/99)
   (78)   Yard. A space on the same lot with a principal building open,
unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky
except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
   (79)   Yard, front. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from
the front line of the building to the front line of the lot.
   (80)   Yard, rear. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a
principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between
the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to the
side lines of the lot.
   (81)   Yard, side. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a
principal building, situated between the building and the side lot line and
extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear
yard.
(Ord. of 7/10/84; Amended by Ord. of 9/26/95; Amended by Ord. of 9/25/01;
Amended by Ord. of 1/12/10; Amended by Ord. of 9/27/11; Amended by Ord. of 12/
10/20; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21; Amended by Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-4005 Expansion of extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   When the Town of Canton proposes to exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction
under this article it shall notify the owners of all parcels of land proposed
for addition to the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction, as shown on the
county tax records. The notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the last
addresses listed for affected property owners in the county tax records. The
notice shall inform the landowner of the effect of the extension of
extraterritorial jurisdiction, of the landowner's right to participate in a
legislative hearing prior to adoption of any ordinance extending the area of
extraterritorial jurisdiction, as provided in G.S. § 160D-601, and the right of
all residents of the area to apply to the board of county commissioners to
serve as a representative on the Planning Board and the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, as provided in G.S. § 160D-303. The notice shall be mailed at least
30 days prior to the date of the hearing. The person or persons mailing the
notices shall certify to the Board of Aldermen that the notices were sent by
first-class mail, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence
of fraud.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4006 Comprehensive plan.
   (a)   As a condition of adopting and applying zoning regulations under G.S.
Ch. 160D, the Town shall adopt and reasonably maintain a comprehensive plan
that sets forth goals, policies and programs intended to guide the present and
future physical, social, and economic development of the jurisdiction. Page 40
Session Law 2019-111 Senate Bill 355.
   (b)   A comprehensive plan is intended to guide coordinated, efficient, and
orderly development within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction
based on an analysis of present and future needs. Planning analysis may address
inventories of existing conditions and assess future trends regarding
demographics and economic, environmental, and cultural factors. The planning
process shall include opportunities for citizen engagement in plan preparation
and adoption.
   (c)   In addition to a comprehensive plan, the Town of Canton may prepare
and adopt such other plans as deemed appropriate. This may include, but is not
limited to, land-use plans, small area plans, neighborhood plans, hazard
mitigation plans, transportation plans, housing plans, and recreation and open
space plans. If adopted pursuant to the process set forth in this section, such
plans shall be considered in review of proposed zoning amendments.
   (d)   A comprehensive plan may, among other topics, address any of the
following as determined by the Town of Canton:
   (1)   Issues and opportunities facing the Town, including consideration of
trends, values expressed by citizens, community vision, and guiding principles
for growth and development.
   (2)   The pattern of desired growth and development and civic design,
including the location, distribution, and characteristics of future land uses,
urban form, utilities, and transportation networks.
   (3)   Employment opportunities, economic development, and community
development.
   (4)   Acceptable levels of public services and infrastructure to support
development, including water, waste disposal, utilities, emergency services,
transportation, education, recreation, community facilities, and other public
services, including plans and policies for provision of and financing for
public infrastructure.
   (5)   Housing with a range of types and affordability to accommodate persons
and households of all types and income levels.
   (6)   Recreation and open spaces.
   (7)   Mitigation of natural hazards such as flooding, winds, wildfires, and
unstable lands.
   (8)   Protection of the environment and natural resources, including
agricultural resources, mineral resources, and water and air quality.
   (9)   Protection of significant architectural, scenic, cultural, historical,
or archaeological resources.
   (10)   Analysis and evaluation of implementation measures, including
regulations, public investments, and educational programs.
   (e)   Plans shall be adopted by the Board of Aldermen with the advice and
consultation of the Planning Board. Adoption and amendment of a comprehensive
plan is a legislative decision and shall follow the process mandated for zoning
text amendments set by G.S. § 160D-601. Plans adopted under this Chapter may be
undertaken and adopted as part of or in conjunction with plans required under
other statutes, including, but not limited to, the plans required by G.S. §
113A-110. Plans adopted under this Chapter shall be advisory in nature without
independent regulatory effect. Plans adopted under this chapter do not expand,
diminish, or alter the scope of authority for development regulations adopted
under this chapter. Plans adopted under this chapter shall be considered by the
Planning Board and Board of Aldermen when considering proposed amendments to
zoning regulations as required by G.S. § 160D-604 and G.S. § 160D-605.
   (f)   If a plan is deemed amended by G.S. § 160D-605 by virtue of adoption
of a zoning amendment that is inconsistent with the plan, that amendment shall
be noted in the plan. However, if the plan is one that requires review and
approval subject to G.S. § 113A-110, the plan amendment shall not be effective
until that review and approval is completed.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4007 Grant of power.
   The Town of Canton may adopt zoning regulations in accordance with the
powers granted by G.S. § 160D-702. This chapter further authorizes regulations
which require that street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public,
that provision be made of recreational space and facilities, and that
performance guarantees be provided, all to the same extent and with the same
limitations as provided for in G.S. § 160D-804 and G.S. § 160D-804.1.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4008 Exemption of bona fide farms.
   Property that is in the Town's extraterritorial planning and development
regulation jurisdiction and that is used for bona fide farm purposes is exempt
from the city's zoning regulation to the same extent bona fide farming
activities are exempt from county zoning pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4009 and 9-4010 reserved.
ARTICLE B
Establishment of Districts
Section 9-4011 Use Districts.
   For the purpose of this article the Town of Canton is hereby divided into
the following districts:
   (1)   R-1 Single-family residential
   (2)   R-2 General residential
   (3)   C-1 Central business
   (4)   C-2 General business
   (5)   C-3 Neighborhood business
   (6)   C-4 Highway business
   (7)   I-1 Light industrial
   (8)   I-2 Heavy industrial
   (9)   F-1 Floodway
   (10)   W-P Watershed protection
   (11)   C-A Pigeon River Critical Area Watershed Protection District
(Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; Amended by Ord. of 9/14/93; Amended by Ord. of 6/
24/21)
Section 9-4012 District boundaries.
   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on a map
entitled “Official Zoning Map, Town of Canton, North Carolina,” adopted by the
Board of Aldermen and certified by the Town Clerk. Floodplain boundaries shall
be determined by the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The FEMA Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) are hereby incorporated by reference into this article. The
zoning map with all explanatory matter thereon and the FEMA FIRM mapping
accompany and are hereby made a part of this chapter. The current and prior
zoning map and incorporated FIRM maps shall be retained in paper or digital
format for public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4013 Rules governing boundaries.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply:
   (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
center lines of streets or highways, street lines or railroad right-of-way
lines or such lines extended, such center lines, street lines, or railroad
right-of-way lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the center lines of streets, highways, rivers and streams,
railroads, or rights-of-ways of the same, the district boundaries shall be
construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated
on the zoning map. If no distance is given, the dimension shall be determined
by use of the scale shown on the zoning map.
   (4)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership the
district requirements for the least restricted portion of the lot shall be
deemed to apply to the whole thereof; provided that the extensions shall not
include any part of such a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary
line.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4014 Conditional districts.
   Conditional districts are districts with conditions mutually agreed upon by
the applicant and the Town and approved in a legislative procedure by the Board
of Aldermen in accordance with G.S. 160D-703. Conditional districts provide for
orderly and flexible development under the general policies of this article and
the subdivision ordinance without the constraints of some of the prescribed
standards guiding by-right development. A Conditional district may be used in
any district but is not intended to relieve hardships that would otherwise be
handled using a variance/quasi-judicial procedure. The Board of Aldermen shall
consider the conditions and site/subdivision plans in making a decision on the
rezoning to a conditional district. The following shall apply:
   (1)   Property may only be placed in a conditional district at the request
of all owners of the property to be included.
   (2)   Only conditions approved by the Town and consented to by the applicant
may be incorporated into the zoning regulations.
   (3)   Unless consented to by the petitioner in writing, in the exercise of
the authority granted by this section, the Town may not require, enforce, or
incorporate into the zoning regulations any condition or requirement not
otherwise authorized by law.
   (4)   Minor modifications to conditional district standards, once approved
by the Board of Aldermen, may be reviewed and approved administratively only as
outlined in Section 9-4097, Any other modification of the conditions and
standards in a conditional district shall follow the same process for approval
as are applicable to zoning map amendments.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4015 through 9-4020 reserved.
ARTICLE C
Use Requirements by District
Section 9-4021 Intent.
   It is the intent of this article that if any use or class of use is not
specifically permitted in a district as set forth below, it shall be prohibited
in that district. However, in the W-P watershed protection district, any use or
class of use not specifically prohibited in the district shall be permitted in
the district.
(Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4022 R-1 single-family residential district.
   (a)   Intent. The R-1 single-family residential district is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for residential purposes.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (2)   Churches and their customary related uses.
   (3)   Greenhouses and truck gardens which are incidental to the residential
use and conducted on a noncommercial basis only; provided that no greenhouse
heating plant shall be located within 25 feet of any lot line.
   (4)   Home occupations such as dressmaking, drapery maker, laundering and
ironing, cooking and baking, hairdressing, music instruction; the renting of
not more than one room; the boarding of not more than two boarders; and the
practice of any recognized profession such as law; the writing of insurance,
accounting, medicine, dentistry and chiropractic as defined in article A,
Section
9-4004(c) of this chapter.
   (5)   Public elementary and secondary schools and private schools having
curricula approximately the same as ordinarily given in public schools. Signs
not exceeding 12 square feet with no flashing illumination.
   (6)   Public or private parks, playgrounds, community centers, libraries,
tennis courts, golf courses, swimming pools, and similar recreation uses
operated on a noncommercial or nonprofit basis. Signs not exceeding 12 square
feet with no flashing illumination.
   (7)   Public works and public utility facilities such as transformer
stations, pumping stations, water towers and telephone exchanges, provided
that:
   a.   Such facilities are essential to the service of the immediate area.
   b.   No vehicle or materials shall be stored on the premises, and no offices
shall be permitted.
   c.   All structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property
lines and enclosed by a woven wire fence at least eight (8) feet in height
where deemed necessary by the Planning Board.
   d.   The entire lot shall be properly landscaped to blend with the
surrounding area and furnished with a densely planted buffer at least six feet
in height.
   (8)   Signs, advertising; incidental or accessory:
   a.   One professional or announcement sign per lot for customary home
occupations. The signs shall not exceed three square feet in area exposed to
view and must be mounted flat to the main wall of the principal building. No
such sign shall be illuminated.
   b.   Signs pertaining only to the lease, rent or sale of the property upon
which displayed. The signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area
exposed to view. No sign shall be illuminated.
   c.   Church bulletin board or sign not exceeding 12 square feet for the
purpose of displaying the name of the institution or other related information.
The signs shall be set back at least 20 feet from the street right-of-way line.
No flashing illumination.
   (9)   Accessory buildings or structures provided such shall be permitted
only in a rear yard and shall be not less than 10 feet from any property line;
and further provided that in the case of corner lots the buildings or
structures shall be set back at least 40 feet from any side street right-of-way
line.
   (10)   Family care homes.
(Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21; Amended by Ord. of
7/28/22)
Section 9-4023 R-2 general residential district.
   (a)   Intent. The R-2 general residential district is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for residential purposes.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   All uses permitted in a single-family residential district.
   (2)   Two-family dwellings.
   (3)   Clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations.
   (4)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (5)   Rooming or boardinghouses.
   (6)   Tourist homes.
   (7)   Nursery schools and kindergartens provided that at least 100 square
feet of outdoor play area is provided for each child.
   (8)   Signs not to exceed 12 square feet with no flashing lights.
   (9)   Family care homes.
   (10)   Child care center (more than 8 children).
   a.   Center must be licensed and permitted to operate by the North Carolina
Division of Child Development as such.
   b.   Must meet all provisions and regulations outlined in the NC Child Care
Center Handbook, as well as all state and local regulations related to space
requirements, hours of operation, location of outdoor play space, parking
requirements, setbacks and so forth.
   c.   Adequate access to and from the site, as well as adequate off-street
space must be provided for the pickup and discharge of children or adults.
   d.   Parking spaces are required based upon one space per employee expected
to be at the center at any given time, plus one space per fifteen (15)
children.
   e.   A copy of the North Carolina State license issued to the facility shall
be clearly displayed.
   (11)   Single-family, attached dwelling.
   a.   Overall area of site to be subdivided and/or developed shall be no less
than 2,400 square feet.
   b.   All single-family, attached lots shall take access onto a public
street.
   c.   All single-family, attached units must be serviced by public water and
sewer.
   d.   No more than eight (8) attached units may be connected in a single
structure.
   e.   A minium separation of ten feet (10') is required between end units or
end units and a side or rear property line.
   (c)   Special use permits.
   (1)   Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes and dental offices and clinics
not used primarily for the treatment of contagious diseases, alcoholism or drug
addicts.
    (2)   Thrift store, consignment shop, or food pantry for the needy operated
for and by a church, or nonprofit (501(c)(3)) organization. Proceeds, profits
or value derived from the operation must benefit the needy, homeless, or
similar charitable efforts. The facility must provide one parking place for
every 100 square feet of the floor area and may only operate during the hours
of 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. A single non-illuminated
primary sign may not exceed 12 square feet and other than directional/
informational signs there shall be no attached signs.
   (d)   Conditional district.
   (1)   Group projects must conform to Section
9-4076.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/80; as amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; as amended by Ord.
of 7/26/94; As amended by Ord. of 10/22/13; As amended by Ord. of 12/10/15; As
amended by Ord. of 12/10/20; As amended by Ord. of 6/24/21; As amended by Ord.
of 7/28/22)
Section 9-4024 C-1 Central Business District.
   (a)   Intent. In order to protect and improve the main shopping area of the
Town, and to discourage uses which do not require a central location and which
are not compatible with the functions of the area as the primary shopping and
office area, a central business district is hereby established.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   Appliance sales and service.
   (2)   Automobile parking lots and structures.
   (3)   Bakeries, where the products are sold exclusively at retail on the
premises.
   (4)   Banks and other financial institutions including loan and finance
companies.
   (5)   Barber and beauty shops.
   (6)   Beach bingo games.
   (7)   Billiard or pool halls. Notwithstanding any provision of this article
to the contrary, billiard or pool halls and commercial recreation centers shall
not be a permitted use in any other district, except C-2, C-3, C-4, I-1, or I-
2 upon approval or a special use permit pursuant to Section
9-4116(2).
   (8)   Business colleges, barber and beauty colleges, art schools, music and
dance studios and similar uses, but excluding industrial or vocational trade
schools.
   (9)   Civic organizations.
   (10)   Commercial recreation centers.
   (11)   Dry cleaning and laundry establishments, including coin-operated
laundries.
   (12)   Fire and police stations.
   (13)   Florist shops, but not commercial greenhouses.
   (14)   Food stores, retail only.
   (15)   Funeral homes.
   (16)   Furriers and fur storage.
   (17)   Gasoline service stations.
   (18)   Hotels, motels and inns.
   (19)   Libraries, museums and art galleries.
   (20)   Locksmiths and gunsmiths.
   (21)   Newspaper offices and printing plants incidental to such offices.
   (22)   Office supplies and equipment, sales and services.
   (23)   Offices; business, professional and public.
   (24)   Opticians and optical goods stores.
   (25)   Parks.
   (26)   Pawnshops.
   (27)   Photographic studios and camera supply stores.
   (28)   Physical culture and reducing salons.
   (29)   Printing, publishing and reproducing establishments.
   (30)   Public buildings and lands other than elementary and high schools.
   (31)   Radio and television stations, studios and offices.
   (32)   Restaurants, but not drive-in restaurants.
   (33)   Retail establishments such as department, clothing, fabric, shoe,
variety, notion, drug, hardware, furniture, appliance, floor covering, paint,
antique, art goods, jewelry, gift, music, toy, sporting goods, book and
stationery, magazine, candy, tobacco, pet and hobby and craft stores, but not
excluding similar retail shops.
   (34)   Shoe repair shops.
   (35)   Signs, accessory to and on the same premises as uses permitted in
this section, but not including billboards. No sign shall exceed 12 square feet
in size and shall have no flashing illumination.
   (36)   Tailor, dressmaking and millinery shops.
   (37)   Taxicab stands.
   (38)   Telegraph or messenger service office.
   (39)   Theaters, housed in a permanent indoor structure.
   (40)   Public utility distribution lines, trans-former stations,
transmission lines and towers, water tanks and towers, and telephone exchanges,
with service or storage yards contained within the building.
   (41)   Customary accessory uses and structures when located on the same lot
as the main structure, excluding, however, open storage.
   (42)   Single or multi-family residential dwelling units are permitted in
existing structures or can be added to existing structures provided all units
are located on floor levels above or below the adjacent street level other than
specialty housing units approved by the Canton Planning Board as a “special
use” meeting the following requirements:
   a.   Must meet current building and fire codes.
   b.   Building facade must be compatible with surrounding structures.
   c.   No other specialty housing units within a 500-foot radius.
   d.   Designed/designated for single person occupancy only with no pets
allowed. This requirement must be included in all rental agreements.
   e.   May not exceed 600 square feet per unit.
   f.   Must demonstrate adequate parking for use as rooming/boarding house per
Section 9-4062.
      All current single-family and multi-family units may be replaced with
same size buildings. In lieu of any other parking requirements of this section,
each dwelling unit shall be provided one off-street parking space. Such space
may be located on property separate from the dwelling unit but shall be within
a reasonable walking distance of such unit, not to exceed 500 feet.
   (43)   Planned unit developments.
   (44)   Churches permitted.
   (45)   Internet access/sweepstakes provider permitted.
   (46)   Tattooing.
   a.   Prior to being issued a business license, the owner/operator must agree
in writing to comply with the following requirements:
   1.   Sale or consumption of alcohol is banned on the premise except for
limited special occasion permits issued by the NC Alcohol Beverage Control
Commission.
   2.   Time of operations be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   3.   Must conform to any and all other uses and requirements within the Zone
where the business is located.
   4.   No sale of products, devices, or accessories commonly associated with
smoking products (hookah pipes, glass smoking bowls, clips, etc.)
   5.   No piercing, body modification, scarification of any kind.
   b.   Failure to comply with or continue with these requirements shall be
grounds to revoke the permit with notification to local and state authorities.
   (47)   Mobile food units.
   (c)   Special use permit; automobile sales provided that:
   (1)   No vehicle shall be parked as to impede the pedestrian or vehicular
traffic flow.
   (2)   All vehicles must display a valid North Carolina inspection sticker.
   (3)   No major automobile repair shall be conducted on the premises.
   (4)   There shall be no outside storage of automobile parts.
   (5)   There shall be no less than 200 square feet of display area per car
parked on the lot for purpose of sale.
   (6)   There shall be no vehicles sold other than automobiles, motorcycles,
or light or heavy duty trucks.
   (7)   The Planning Board reserves the right to recommend and the Board of
Adjustment reserves the right to impose any other regulations deemed necessary
to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (d)   Special requirements for mobile food units.
   (1)   Mobile food units shall only operate on private property located in
approved commercial or industrial zones, with written permission from the
property owner. Operations of a mobile food unit(s) on Town property may be
allowed under one of the following circumstances:
   a.   In association with a privately hosted and/or organized event
previously approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/Alderwomen for co-
sponsorship by the Town; or
   b.   At any event hosted and/or organized by the Town on any Town-owned
property, at Recreation Park in lieu operated concessions, and in any other
circumstance that the Town Manager or his or her designated staff feel a mobile
food unit(s) could have a positive impact.
   1.   Additionally, under this provision the Town has full discretion in the
selection of mobile food trucks for participation, the application process,
requirements, number, etc., as determined by need.
   2.   In the event the Town, at its discretion, chooses to require a permit
fee for an event (in the form of a vendor fee and/or deposit), failure of the
vendor to provide agreed upon services and/or notify the Town within seven (7)
days prior to the event if they are unable to participate will result in
forfeiture of any permit fee or deposit paid.
   (2)   A private property owner allowing mobile food vending must ensure
there is adequate code parking on the site for patrons, including a designated
space for the mobile food unit.
   (3)   Mobile foot units shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from brick
and mortar restaurants.
   (4)   Mobile food units shall be positioned in an existing parking space,
must be set back from fire lanes, hydrants, utility boxes, and loading areas,
and shall not block driveways. Units shall not be allowed within property
setbacks.
   (5)   Units shall not be permitted to vend in a public right-of-way unless
approved for a special event.
   (6)   All mobile food units shall purchase a permit from the Town to operate
within its corporate limits, the cost of which is established annually in the
Town's Fee Schedule. Permits shall be renewed each year. Additionally, the
mobile food unit wishing to operate must provide a signed County Health
Department permit before permit approval will be issued.
   (7)   Permit applications shall require proof of a valid driver's license,
proof of insurance, photos of the mobile food unit, copies of health department
certificate, and a description of the food and beverages to be sold.
   (8)   The Town permit and approved health department health inspection grade
certificate shall be placed on mobile food units in a conspicuous location.
   (9)   A mobile food unit vendor shall submit a letter of approval from
private property owners they intend to partner with for vending. The letter
shall include a location map for the site, address, a site plan showing the
proposed location for the mobile unit, and a list of any special conditions
imposed.
   (10)   The Town Manager shall have the ability to revoke mobile food permits
if the operation causes parking issues, traffic congestion, litter problems,
and/or health and safety risks either on or off the property where the vending
occurs.
   (11)   Pushcarts selling food shall not be allowed as permitted uses unless
for Town-approved special events. Pushcarts shall not block sidewalks and must
allow a minimum of 48-inch clearance for pedestrians and must not exceed 42
inches in width, 77 inches in length, or 60 inches in height.
   (12)   Pushcarts selling food shall require the same health inspection as
food trucks and shall be required to pay the Town a one-time permit fee per
event, as established by the Town’s Fee Schedule.
   (13)   Mobile food vendors shall not operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
   (14)   Mobile food vendors shall return to their commissary at the end of
each business day as required by State and County Health Codes.
   (15)   Mobile food vendors shall provide trash and recycling receptacles for
customers and clean up all litter from the property prior to departure.
   (16)   Mobile food units can use generators if they operate at 65 decibels
or less and if they are properly attached to the mobile food vehicle, per the
manufacturer's standards.
   (17)   Mobile food units must be registered and insured and in good working
condition. Units must be properly registered with the DMV, clean, painted, and
free of rust and damage.
   (18)   Food trucks operators shall not operate trucks as drive-up windows.
   (19)   No signage shall be allowed except that which is painted on the food
truck body and a portable menu sign no more than 6 square feet in display area
on the ground in the customer waiting area.
   (20)   Vendors shall not erect temporary facilities such as tents, shade
cloths, or temporary restrooms to the site. A single 8-foot portable table and
chairs shall be allowed.
   (21)   Mobile food shall not use amplified sound or music to attract the
public and must follow all Town sound ordinance requirements.
   (22)   Alcohol shall not be sold from mobile food units.
   (23)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this article or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty of up to $50.00 or as modified by the Town of Canton’s Code of
Ordinances. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (24)   All mobile food vendors shall operate in conjunction with a permitted
restaurant or commissary in accordance with 15A NCAC 18A.2670, General
Requirements for Pushcarts and Mobile Food Units, or operate as its own
commissary in accordance with G.S. § 130A-248(c1).
   (25)   Mobile food unit vendor shall submit signed copies of commissary
agreement to the Town as a condition for a vending permit.
(Amended by Ord. of 2/8/94; As Amended by Ord of 8/12/97; As Amended by Ord. of
9/25/01; As Amended; by Ord. of 1/12/10; As Amended by Ord. of 11/27/12; As
Amended by Ord. of 1/22/13; As Amended by Ord. of 3/26/15; As Amended by Ord.
of 9/27/18; As amended by Ord. of 12/10/20; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4025 C-2 general business district.
   (a)   Intent. The purpose of this district is to provide for general and
commercial activity at convenience points in the Town. Regulations are designed
to preserve the traffic carrying capacity of the streets and to provide for
off-street parking. It is not the intent of this district to encourage
extensive strip commercial development, but rather to provide concentrations of
general commercial activities.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   All uses permitted in a central business district.
   (2)   Animal hospital or veterinary clinic, but no open kennels on the
premises.
   (3)   Assembly halls, coliseums, gymnasiums, and similar structures.
   (4)   Automobile repair and paint shops, but excluding open storage of
wrecked cars or discarded tires.
   (5)   Automobile sales.
   (6)   Automobile washing establishments.
   (7)   Bakeries and other establishments manufacturing prepared food and
miscellaneous food products.
   (8)   Beach bingo games.
   (9)   Bicycle sales and repairs.
   (10)   Bottling plants.
   (11)   Bowling alleys.
   (12)   Building supply and equipment sales.
   (13)   Bus terminal, for passengers.
   (14)   Cold storage or freezer lockers.
   (15)   Dairy bars and ice cream manufacturers.
   (16)   Dry cleaning and laundry establishments.
   (17)   Electrical repair shops.
   (18)   Fabricating shops of small size such as woodworking shops, cabinet
shops and upholstery shops, but excluding open storage.
   (19)   Farm machinery assembly, sales and repairs.
   (20)   Feed and seed stores.
   (21)   Funeral homes or mortuaries.
   (22)   Glass and mirror shops, venetian blind and awning shops, tile
companies, and similar building specialties outlets.
   (23)   Greenhouses or horticultural nurseries.
   (24)   Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes and medical and dental clinics
not used primarily for the treatment of contagious diseases, alcoholics, or
drug addicts.
   (25)   Ice pick-up stations.
   (26)   Industrial or vocational trade schools.
   (27)   Monument sales.
   (28)   Motels, inns, tourist courts.
   (29)   Restaurants, including drive-in restaurants.
   (30)   Service or filling stations, provided that gasoline pumps or other
appliances shall be located at least 12 feet behind the property line. (See
Section
9-4078)
   (31)   Sheet metal, roofing, plumbing, heating and refrigeration shops, but
excluding open storage.
   (32)   Sign painting and fabricating shops.
   (33)   Signs, excluding billboards. Not to exceed 12 square feet with no
flashing illumination.
   (34)   Tire recapping and retreading, but excluding open storage of
discarded tires.
   (35)   Trucking terminals, transfer companies.
   (36)   Wholesale and warehousing establishments except for the storage of
dangerous or offensive items such as uncured hides, explosives, oil, gasoline,
etc.
   (37)   Single or multi-family residential dwelling units permitted.
   (38)   Churches permitted.
   (39)   Internet access/sweepstakes provider permitted.
   (40)   Tattooing.
   a.   Prior to being issued a business license, the owner/operator must agree
in writing to comply with the following requirements:
   1.   Sale or consumption of alcohol is banned on the premises except for
limited special occasion permits issued by the NC Alcohol Beverage Control
Commission.
   2.   Time of operations be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   3.   Must conform to any and all other uses and requirements within the Zone
where the business is located.
   4.   No sale of products, devices, or accessories commonly associated with
smoking products (hookah pipes, glass smoking bowls, clips, etc.)
   5.   No piercing, body modification, scarification of any kind.
   b.   Failure to comply with or continue with these requirements shall be
grounds to revoke the permit with notification to local and state authorities.
   (41)   Child care center (more than 8 children).
   a.   Center must be licensed and permitted to operate by the North Carolina
Division of Child Development as such.
   b.   Must meet all provisions and regulations outlined in the NC Child Care
Center Handbook as well as all state and local regulations related to space
requirements, hours of operation, location of outdoor play space, parking
requirements, setbacks and so forth.
   c.   Adequate access to and from the site, as well as adequate off-street
space must be provided for the pickup and discharge of children or adults.
   d.   Parking spaces are required based upon one space per employee expected
to be at the center at any given time, plus one space per fifteen (15)
children.
   e.   A copy of the North Carolina State license issued to the facility shall
be clearly displayed.
   (42)   Mobile food units.
   (c)   Special requirements for mobile food units.
   (1)   Mobile food units shall only operate on private property located in
approved commercial or industrial zones, with written permission from the
property owner. Operations of a mobile food unit(s) on Town property may be
allowed under one of the following circumstances:
   a.   In association with a privately hosted and/or organized event
previously approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/Alderwomen for co-
sponsorship by the Town; or
   b.   At any event hosted and/or organized by the Town on any Town-owned
property, at Recreation Park in lieu operated concessions, and in any other
circumstance that the Town Manager or his or her designated staff feel a mobile
food unit(s) could have a positive impact.
   1.   Additionally, under this provision the Town has full discretion in the
selection of mobile food trucks for participation, the application process,
requirements, number, etc., as determined by need.
   2.   In the event the Town, at its discretion, chooses to require a permit
fee for an event (in the form of a vendor fee and/or deposit), failure of the
vendor to provide agreed upon services and/or notify the Town within seven (7)
days prior to the event if they are unable to participate will result in
forfeiture of any permit fee or deposit paid.
   (2)   A private property owner allowing mobile food vending must ensure
there is adequate code parking on the site for patrons, including a designated
space for the mobile food unit.
   (3)   Mobile foot units shall be set back a minimum of 100' from brick and
mortar restaurants.
   (4)   Mobile food units shall be positioned in an existing parking space,
must be set back from fire lanes, hydrants, utility boxes, and loading areas,
and shall not block driveways. Units shall not be allowed within property
setbacks.
   (5)   Units shall not be permitted to vend in a public right-of-way unless
approved for a special event.
   (6)   All mobile food units shall purchase a permit from the Town to operate
within its corporate limits, the cost of which is established annually in the
Town's Fee Schedule. Permits shall be renewed each year. Additionally, the
mobile food unit wishing to operate must provide a signed County Health
Department permit before permit approval will be issued.
   (7)   Permit applications shall require proof of a valid driver's license,
proof of insurance, photos of the mobile food unit, copies of Health Department
certificate, and a description of the food and beverages to be sold.
   (8)   The Town permit and approved health department health inspection grade
certificate shall be placed on mobile food units in a conspicuous location.
   (9)   A mobile food unit vendor shall submit a letter of approval from
private property owners they intend to partner with for vending. The letter
shall include a location map for the site, address, a site plan showing the
proposed location for the mobile unit, and a list of any special conditions
imposed.
   (10)   The Town Manager shall have the ability to revoke mobile food permits
if the operation causes parking issues, traffic congestion, litter problems,
and/or health and safety risks either on or off the property where the vending
occurs.
   (11)   Pushcarts selling food shall not be allowed as permitted uses unless
for Town-approved special events. Pushcarts shall not block sidewalks and must
allow a minimum of 48-inch clearance for pedestrians and must not exceed 42
inches in width, 77 inches in length, or 60 inches in height.
   (12)   Pushcarts selling food shall require the same health inspection as
food trucks and shall be required to pay the Town a one-time permit fee per
event, as established by the Town’s Fee Schedule.
   (13)   Mobile food vendors shall not operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
   (14)   Mobile food vendors shall return to their commissary at the end of
each business day as required by State and County Health Codes.
   (15)   Mobile food vendors shall provide trash and recycling receptacles for
customers and clean up all litter from the property prior to departure.
   (16)   Mobile food units can use generators if they operate at 65 decibels
or less and if they are properly attached to the mobile food vehicle, per the
manufacturer's standards.
   (17)   Mobile food units must be registered and insured and in good working
condition. Units must be properly registered with the DMV, clean, painted, and
free of rust and damage.
   (18)   Food trucks operators shall not operate trucks as drive-up windows.
   (19)   No signage shall be allowed except that which is painted on the food
truck body and a portable menu sign no more than 6 square feet in display area
on the ground in the customer waiting area.
   (20)   Vendors shall not erect temporary facilities such as tents, shade
cloths, or temporary restrooms to the site. A single 8-foot portable table and
chairs shall be allowed.
   (21)   Mobile food shall not use amplified sound or music to attract the
public and must follow all Town sound ordinance requirements.
   (22)   Alcohol shall not be sold from mobile food units.
   (23)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this article or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty of up to $50.00 or as modified by the Town of Canton’s Code of
Ordinances. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (24)   All mobile food vendors shall operate in conjunction with a permitted
restaurant or commissary in accordance with 15A NCAC 18A.2670, General
Requirements for Pushcarts and Mobile Food Units, or operate as its own
commissary in accordance with G.S. § 130A-248(c1).
   (25)   Mobile food unit vendor shall submit signed copies of commissary
agreement to the Town as a condition for a vending permit.
   (d)   Special uses.
   (1)   Mobile food unit commissaries.
   a.   Standalone commissaries shall meet all state and federal food safety
requirements, specifically 15A NCAC 18A.2600, Rules Governing the Food
Protection and Sanitation of Food Establishments, and the 2009 FDA Food Code.
   b.   No more than one (1) commissary shall be permitted within a distance of
two (2) miles, measured in a single straight line as the crow flies.
   c.   Standalone commissaries shall be approved by the Planning Board.
(As Amended by Ord. of 8/12/97; As Amended by Ord. of 9/25/01; As Amended by
Ord. of 1/12/10; As Amended by Ord. of 11/27/12; As Amended by Ord. of 3/26/15;
As Amended by Ord. of 12/10/15; As Amended by Ord. of 9/27/18; As Amended by
Ord. of 12/10/20; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4026 C-3 neighborhood business district.
   (a)   Intent. The neighborhood business district is intended to provide
retail goods and services for the surrounding neighborhood.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   Automobile parking lots and structures.
   (2)   Banks and other financial institutions including loan and financial
companies.
   (3)   Bakery, where the products are sold exclusively at retail on the
premises only.
   (4)   Barber and beauty shops.
   (5)   Beach bingo games.
   (6)   Churches and customary related uses.
   (7)   Civic organizations, clubs, lodges and fraternal organizations.
   (8)   Dairy bars and ice cream manufacturing for retail sales on the
premises only.
   (9)   Dry cleaning and laundry establishments operated in conjunction with a
retail service counter, provided that not more than 4,500 square feet are
devoted to the complete operation and that such use does not dry clean and
launder clothes from collection stations or from other plants removed from the
plant located in this district. The uses shall be restricted to the use of gas,
oil or electricity as fuel for generating heat for hot water, steam or any
other use, and all boilers or generating units shall be an integral part of the
principal building. Provided further, that the establishments shall be equipped
with an air vacuum system, or other comparable process of pressing, ironing,
etc. The establishments shall also be restricted to the use of inflammable
liquids for dry cleaning.
   (10)   Fire stations.
   (11)   Florist shops, but not commercial greenhouses.
   (12)   Food stores, retail only, but excluding the killing and dressing of
any flesh or fowl.
   (13)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (14)   Ice pick-up stations.
   (15)   Launderette where individual, family-size laundry or drycleaning
equipment is rented for use by the customer.
   (16)   Libraries.
   (17)   Newsstands.
   (18)   Nursery schools and kindergartens provided that at least 100 feet of
outdoor play area is provided for each child.
   (19)   Offices; business, professional and public.
   (20)   Opticians and optical services.
   (21)   Parks.
   (22)   Photographic studio and camera supply stores.
   (23)   Physical culture and reducing salons.
   (24)   Public utility distribution lines, transformer stations, transmission
lines and towers, water tanks and towers, and telephone exchanges, but not
service or storage yards.
   (25)   Repairing and servicing of household equipment such as electrical
appliances, provided all operations, including storage, are conducted wholly
within a completely enclosed building.
   (26)   Restaurants, including drive-in restaurants.
   (27)   Retail establishments such as department, clothing, variety, drug,
furniture, notion, hardware, appliance, jewelry, music, art, antique, gift,
sporting goods, toys, hobby, book and stationery stores, but not excluding
similar retail establishments.
   (28)   Service or filling stations, but not including major repair work;
provided that gasoline pumps or other similar appliances shall be located at
least 12 feet behind the property line, and all service, storage or similar
activities connected with such use shall be conducted entirely within the
premises.
   (29)   Signs, accessory to and on the same premises as uses permitted in
this section, but not including billboards. Not to exceed 12 square feet with
no flashing illumination.
   (30)   Show repair shops.
   (31)   Tailor, dressmaking and millinery shops.
   (32)   Theaters, housed in a permanent indoor structure.
   (33)   Customary accessory uses and structures when located on the same lot
as the main structure, excluding, however, open storage.
   (34)   Single-family dwellings.
   (35)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (36)   Single or multi-family residential dwelling units permitted.
   (37)   Internet access/sweepstakes provider permitted.
   (38)   Child care center (more than 8 children).
   a.   Center must be licensed and permitted to operate by the North Carolina
Division of Child Development as such.
   b.   Must meet all provisions and regulations outlined in the NC Child Care
Center Handbook as well as, all state and local regulations related to space
requirements, hours of operation, location of outdoor play space, parking
requirements, setbacks and so forth.
   c.   Adequate access to and from the site, as well as adequate off-street
space must be provided for the pickup and discharge of children or adults.
   d.   Parking spaces are required based upon one space per employee expected
to be at the center at any given time, plus one space per fifteen (15)
children.
   e.   A copy of the North Carolina State license issued to the facility shall
be clearly displayed.
   (39)   Mobile food units.
   (c)   Special requirements for mobile food units.
   (1)   Mobile food units shall only operate on private property located in
approved commercial or industrial zones, with written permission from the
property owner. Operations of a mobile food unit(s) on Town property may be
allowed under one of the following circumstances:
   a.   In association with a privately hosted and/or organized event
previously approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/Alderwomen for co-
sponsorship by the Town; or
   b.   At any event hosted and/or organized by the Town on any Town-owned
property, at Recreation Park in lieu operated concessions, and in any other
circumstance that the Town Manager or his or her designated staff feel a mobile
food unit(s) could have a positive impact.
   1.   Additionally, under this provision the Town has full discretion in the
selection of mobile food trucks for participation, the application process,
requirements, number, etc., as determined by need.
   2.   In the event the Town, at its discretion, chooses to require a permit
fee for an event (in the form of a vendor fee and/or deposit), failure of the
vendor to provide agreed upon services and/or notify the Town within seven (7)
days prior to the event if they are unable to participate will result in
forfeiture of any permit fee or deposit paid.
   (2)   A private property owner allowing mobile food vending must ensure
there is adequate code parking on the site for patrons, including a designated
space for the mobile food unit.
   (3)   Mobile foot units shall be set back a minimum of 100' from brick and
mortar restaurants.
   (4)   Mobile food units shall be positioned in an existing parking space,
must be set back from fire lanes, hydrants, utility boxes, and loading areas,
and shall not block driveways. Units shall not be allowed within property
setbacks.
   (5)   Units shall not be permitted to vend in a public right-of-way unless
approved for a special event.
   (6)   All mobile food units shall purchase a permit from the Town to operate
within its corporate limits, the cost of which is established annually in the
Town's Fee Schedule. Permits shall be renewed each year. Additionally, the
mobile food unit wishing to operate must provide a signed County Health
Department permit before permit approval will be issued.
   (7)   Permit applications shall require proof of a valid driver's license,
proof of insurance, photos of the mobile food unit, copies of health department
certificate, and a description of the food and beverages to be sold.
   (8)   The Town permit and approved health department health inspection grade
certificate shall be placed on mobile food units in a conspicuous location.
   (9)   A mobile food unit vendor shall submit a letter of approval from
private property owners they intend to partner with for vending. The letter
shall include a location map for the site, address, a site plan showing the
proposed location for the mobile unit, and a list of any special conditions
imposed.
   (10)   The Town Manager shall have the ability to revoke mobile food permits
if the operation causes parking issues, traffic congestion, litter problems,
and/or health and safety risks either on or off the property where the vending
occurs.
   (11)   Pushcarts selling food shall not be allowed as permitted uses unless
for Town-approved special events. Pushcarts shall not block sidewalks and must
allow a minimum of 48-inch clearance for pedestrians and must not exceed 42
inches in width, 77 inches in length, or 60 inches in height.
   (12)   Pushcarts selling food shall require the same health inspection as
food trucks and shall be required to pay the Town a one-time permit fee per
event, as established by the Town’s Fee Schedule.
   (13)   Mobile food vendors shall not operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
   (14)   Mobile food vendors shall return to their commissary at the end of
each business day as required by State and County Health Codes.
   (15)   Mobile food vendors shall provide trash and recycling receptacles for
customers and clean up all litter from the property prior to departure.
   (16)   Mobile food units can use generators if they operate at 65 decibels
or less and if they are properly attached to the mobile food vehicle, per the
manufacturer's standards.
   (17)   Mobile food units must be registered and insured and in good working
condition. Units must be properly registered with the DMV, clean, painted, and
free of rust and damage.
   (18)   Food trucks operators shall not operate trucks as drive-up windows.
   (19)   No signage shall be allowed except that which is painted on the food
truck body and a portable menu sign no more than 6 square feet in display area
on the ground in the customer waiting area.
   (20)   Vendors shall not erect temporary facilities such as tents, shade
cloths, or temporary restrooms to the site. A single 8-foot portable table and
chairs shall be allowed.
   (21)   Mobile food shall not use amplified sound or music to attract the
public and must follow all Town sound ordinance requirements.
   (22)   Alcohol shall not be sold from mobile food units.
   (23)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this article or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty of up to $50.00 or as modified by the Town of Canton’s Code of
Ordinances. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (24)   All mobile food vendors shall operate in conjunction with a permitted
restaurant or commissary in accordance with 15A NCAC 18A.2670, General
Requirements for Pushcarts and Mobile Food Units, or operate as its own
commissary in accordance with G.S. § 130A-248(c1).
   (25)   Mobile food unit vendor shall submit signed copies of commissary
agreement to the Town as a condition for a vending permit.
(Amended by Ord. of 2/8/94; As Amended by Ord of 8/12/97; As Amended by Ord. of
9/25/01; As Amended by Ord. of 1/12/10; As Amended by Ord. of 11/27/12; As
Amended by Ord. of 1/22/13; As Amended by Ord. of 3/26/15; As Amended by Ord.
of 9/27/18; As Amended by Ord. of 12/10/20; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4027 C-4 highway business district.
   (a)   Intent. The highway business district is intended to provide for the
establishment of business activity needing access to traffic flows along major
thoroughfares. It is not the intent of this district to encourage strip
commercial development but rather the establishment of clusters of business
activities along major thoroughfares.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   Automobile parking lots and structures.
   (2)   Automobile sales and storage, but not major repair work.
   (3)   Automobile washing establishments.
   (4)   Advertising signs provided such use is not located within 100 feet of
any residential district. No flashing illumination.
   (5)   Bowling alleys.
   (6)   Clubs, or other places of entertainment carried on wholly within a
completely enclosed building.
   (7)   Dairy bars and ice cream manufacturing for retail sale on the premises
only.
   (8)   Gift shops.
   (9)   Golf or baseball driving ranges, miniature golf courses, and other
similar recreational facilities.
   (10)   Ice pick-up stations.
   (11)   Motels.
   (12)   Produce and fruit establishments, retail only.
   (13)   Public utility distribution lines, transformer stations, transmission
lines and towers, water tanks and towers, and telephone exchanges, but not
service or storage yards.
   (14)   Parks and picnic areas.
   (15)   Radio and television stations and towers.
   (16)   Restaurants, including drive- in restaurants.
   (17)   Service or filling stations, but not including major repair work;
provided that gasoline pumps or other
appliances shall be located at least 12 feet behind the property line, and all
service, storage or similar activities connected with the use shall be
conducted entirely within the premises.
   (18)   Skating rinks, permanent.
   (19)   Theaters, drive-in, subject to the following conditions:
   a.   No part of any theater screen, projection booth, or other building
shall be located closer than 500 feet to any residential district or closer
than 50 feet to any property line or public right-of-way; and no parking space
shall be closer than 100 feet to any residential district.
   b.   The theater screen shall not face a major street or highway.
   c.   Reservoir parking space off the street shall be provided for patrons
awaiting admission in an amount of not less than 30 percent of the vehicular
capacity of the theater.
   (20)   Customary accessory uses and structures when located on the same lot
as the main structure, excluding, however, open storage.
   (21)   Single or multi-family residential dwelling units permitted.
   (22)   Internet access/sweepstakes provider permitted.
   (23)   Mobile food units.
   (c)   Special uses:
   (1)   Flea markets.
   (d)   Special requirements for mobile food units.
   (1)   Mobile food units shall only operate on private property located in
approved commercial or industrial zones, with written permission from the
property owner. Operations of a mobile food unit(s) on Town property may be
allowed under one of the following circumstances:
   a.   In association with a privately hosted and/or organized event
previously approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/Alderwomen for co-
sponsorship by the Town; or
   b.   At any event hosted and/or organized by the Town on any Town-owned
property, at Recreation Park in lieu operated concessions, and in any other
circumstance that the Town Manager or his or her designated staff feel a mobile
food unit(s) could have a positive impact.
   1.   Additionally, under this provision the Town has full discretion in the
selection of mobile food trucks for participation, the application process,
requirements, number, etc., as determined by need.
   2.   In the event the Town, at its discretion, chooses to require a permit
fee for an event (in the form of a vendor fee and/or deposit), failure of the
vendor to provide agreed upon services and/or notify the Town within seven (7)
days prior to the event if they are unable to participate will result in
forfeiture of any permit fee or deposit paid.
   (2)   A private property owner allowing mobile food vending must ensure
there is adequate code parking on the site for patrons, including a designated
space for the mobile food unit.
   (3)   Mobile foot units shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from brick
and mortar restaurants.
   (4)   Mobile food units shall be positioned in an existing parking space,
must be set back from fire lanes, hydrants, utility boxes, and loading areas,
and shall not block driveways. Units shall not be allowed within property
setbacks.
   (5)   Units shall not be permitted to vend in a public right-of-way unless
approved for a special event.
   (6)   All mobile food units shall purchase a permit from the Town to operate
within its corporate limits, the cost of which is established annually in the
Town's Fee Schedule. Permits shall be renewed each year. Additionally, the
mobile food unit wishing to operate must provide a signed County Health
Department permit before permit approval will be issued.
   (7)   Permit applications shall require proof of a valid driver's license,
proof of insurance, photos of the mobile food unit, copies of Health Department
certificate, and a description of the food and beverages to be sold.
   (8)   The Town permit and approved health department health inspection grade
certificate shall be placed on mobile food units in a conspicuous location.
   (9)   A mobile food unit vendor shall submit a letter of approval from
private property owners they intend to partner with for vending. The letter
shall include a location map for the site, address, a site plan showing the
proposed location for the mobile unit, and a list of any special conditions
imposed.
   (10)   The Town Manager shall have the ability to revoke mobile food permits
if the operation causes parking issues, traffic congestion, litter problems,
and/or health and safety risks either on or off the property where the vending
occurs.
   (11)   Pushcarts selling food shall not be allowed as permitted uses unless
for Town-approved special events. Pushcarts shall not block sidewalks and must
allow a minimum of 48-inch clearance for pedestrians and must not exceed 42
inches in width, 77 inches in length, or 60 inches in height.
   (12)   Pushcarts selling food shall require the same health inspection as
food trucks and shall be required to pay the Town a one-time permit fee per
event, as established by the Town’s Fee Schedule.
   (13)   Mobile food vendors shall not operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
   (14)   Mobile food vendors shall return to their commissary at the end of
each business day as required by State and County Health Codes.
   (15)   Mobile food vendors shall provide trash and recycling receptacles for
customers and clean up all litter from the property prior to departure.
   (16)   Mobile food units can use generators if they operate at 65 decibels
or less and if they are properly attached to the mobile food vehicle, per the
manufacturer's standards.
   (17)   Mobile food units must be registered and insured and in good working
condition. Units must be properly registered with the DMV, clean, painted, and
free of rust and damage.
   (18)   Food trucks operators shall not operate trucks as drive-up windows.
   (19)   No signage shall be allowed except that which is painted on the food
truck body and a portable menu sign no more than 6 square feet in display area
on the ground in the customer waiting area.
   (20)   Vendors shall not erect temporary facilities such as tents, shade
cloths, or temporary restrooms to the site. A single 8-foot portable table and
chairs shall be allowed.
   (21)   Mobile food shall not use amplified sound or music to attract the
public and must follow all Town sound ordinance requirements.
   (22)   Alcohol shall not be sold from mobile food units.
   (23)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this article or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty of up to $50.00 or as modified by the Town of Canton’s Code of
Ordinances. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (24)   All mobile food vendors shall operate in conjunction with a permitted
restaurant or commissary in accordance with 15A NCAC 18A.2670, General
Requirements for Pushcarts and Mobile Food Units, or operate as its own
commissary in accordance with G.S. § 130A-248(c1).
   (25)   Mobile food unit vendor shall submit signed copies of commissary
agreement to the Town as a condition for a vending permit.
(Amended by Ord. of 2/8/94; As Amended by Ord of 8/12/97; As Amended by Ord. of
9/25/01; As Amended by Ord. of 1/12/10; As Amended by Ord. of 11/27/12; As
Amended by Ord. of 1/22/13; As Amended by Ord. of 3/26/15; As Amended by Ord.
of 9/27/18; As Amended by Ord. of 12/10/20; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4028 I-1 light industrial district.
   (a)   Intent. The light industrial district is intended to provide for the
establishment of light industrial andwarehousing uses which normally seek
locations on large tracts of land.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   Automobile washing establishments.
   (2)   Automobile parking and storage.
   (3)   Automobile sales and service.
   (4)   Automobile repair garages.
   (5)   Bakeries and other establishments manufacturing prepared foods and
miscellaneous food products.
   (6)   Banks.
   (7)   Bottling plants.
   (8)   Bedding, carpet and pillow manufacturing, cleaning and renovating.
   (9)   Bus repair and storage terminals.
   (10)   Cabinet and woodworking shops.
   (11)   Cold storage plants.
   (12)   Contractors’ plants or storage yards.
   (13)   Clothing manufacturing.
   (14)   Dairy products processing plants.
   (15)   Dry cleaning and laundry plants.
   (16)   Electrical repair shops.
   (17)   Food processing in wholesale quantity except meat, fish, poultry,
vinegar and yeast.
   (18)   Farm machinery assembly, repair and sales.
   (19)   Furniture manufacturing plants.
   (20)   Ice plants.
   (21)   Industrial research and educational facilities.
   (22)   Greenhouses and nurseries.
   (23)   Instruments manufacturing for professional, scientific, control
photography, optical and similar uses.
   (24)   Leather products manufacturing.
   (25)   Luggage manufacturing.
   (26)   Locksmiths and gunsmiths.
   (27)   Lumber yards, building materials storage and sale.
   (28)   Machine shops.
   (29)   Offices.
   (30)   Pharmaceutical manufacturing.
   (31)   Printing, publishing and reproduction establishments.
   (32)   Plumbing shops and storage yards.
   (33)   Public utility facilities.
   (34)   Restaurants, including drive- ins.
   (35)   Radio and television stations and masts.
   (36)   Repair and service of office and household equipment.
   (37)   Signs, manufacturing and construction.
   (38)   Signs. No flashing illumination.
   (39)   Sheet metal shops.
   (40)   Service or filling stations.
   (41)   Tire recapping and retreading.
   (42)   Tobacco processing and storage.
   (43)   Mobile home parks. (Must meet requirements concerning mobile home
parks as set forth in Section
9-4023 of this chapter.)
   (44)   Mobile home sales areas.
   (45)   Trucking terminals.
   (46)   Textile manufacturing.
   (47)   Upholstery establishments.
   (48)   Venetian blind manufacture, contractor and cleaning shops.   
   (49)   Wholesale and warehousing establishments except for the storage of
uncured hides, explosives, oil products, gas storage, etc.
   (50)   Accessory uses and buildings which are clearly incidental to a
permitted use and which will not create a nuisance or hazard.
   (51)   Light manufacturing or processing not otherwise named herein;
provided no operations are carried on, or are likely to be carried on, which
will create smoke, fumes, noise, odor or dust which will be detrimental to the
health, safety or general welfare of the community.
   (52)   Single or multi-family residential dwelling units permitted.
   (53)   Mobile food units.
   (c)   Special uses.
   (1)   Flea markets.
   (d)   Special requirements for mobile food units.
   (1)   Mobile food units shall only operate on private property located in
approved commercial or industrial zones, with written permission from the
property owner. Operations of a mobile food unit(s) on Town property may be
allowed under one of the following circumstances:
   a.   In association with a privately hosted and/or organized event
previously approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/Alderwomen for co-
sponsorship by the Town; or
   b.   At any event hosted and/or organized by the Town on any Town-owned
property, at Recreation Park in lieu operated concessions, and in any other
circumstance that the Town Manager or his or her designated staff feel a mobile
food unit(s) could have a positive impact.
   1.   Additionally, under this provision the Town has full discretion in the
selection of mobile food trucks for participation, the application process,
requirements, number, etc., as determined by need.
   2.   In the event the Town, at its discretion, chooses to require a permit
fee for an event (in the form of a vendor fee and/or deposit), failure of the
vendor to provide agreed upon services and/or notify the Town within seven (7)
days prior to the event if they are unable to participate will result in
forfeiture of any permit fee or deposit paid.
   (2)   A private property owner allowing mobile food vending must ensure
there is adequate code parking on the site for patrons, including a designated
space for the mobile food unit.
   (3)   Mobile foot units shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from brick
and mortar restaurants.
   (4)   Mobile food units shall be positioned in an existing parking space,
must be set back from fire lanes, hydrants, utility boxes, and loading areas,
and shall not block driveways. Units shall not be allowed within property
setbacks.
   (5)   Units shall not be permitted to vend in a public right-of-way unless
approved for a special event.
   (6)   All mobile food units shall purchase a permit from the Town to operate
within its corporate limits, the cost of which is established annually in the
Town's Fee Schedule. Permits shall be renewed each year. Additionally, the
mobile food unit wishing to operate must provide a signed County Health
Department permit before permit approval will be issued.
   (7)   Permit applications shall require proof of a valid driver's license,
proof of insurance, photos of the mobile food unit, copies of Health Department
certificate, and a description of the food and beverages to be sold.
   (8)   The Town permit and approved health department health inspection grade
certificate shall be placed on mobile food units in a conspicuous location.
   (9)   A mobile food unit vendor shall submit a letter of approval from
private property owners they intend to partner with for vending. The letter
shall include a location map for the site, address, a site plan showing the
proposed location for the mobile unit, and a list of any special conditions
imposed.
   (10)   The Town Manager shall have the ability to revoke mobile food permits
if the operation causes parking issues, traffic congestion, litter problems,
and/or health and safety risks either on or off the property where the vending
occurs.
   (11)   Pushcarts selling food shall not be allowed as permitted uses unless
for Town-approved special events. Pushcarts shall not block sidewalks and must
allow a minimum of 48-inch clearance for pedestrians and must not exceed 42
inches in width, 77 inches in length, or 60 inches in height.
   (12)   Pushcarts selling food shall require the same health inspection as
food trucks and shall be required to pay the Town a one-time permit fee per
event, as established by the Town’s Fee Schedule.
   (13)   Mobile food vendors shall not operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
   (14)   Mobile food vendors shall return to their commissary at the end of
each business day as required by State and County Health Codes.
   (15)   Mobile food vendors shall provide trash and recycling receptacles for
customers and clean up all litter from the property prior to departure.
   (16)   Mobile food units can use generators if they operate at 65 decibels
or less and if they are properly attached to the mobile food vehicle, per the
manufacturer's standards.
   (17)   Mobile food units must be registered and insured and in good working
condition. Units must be properly registered with the DMV, clean, painted, and
free of rust and damage.
   (18)   Food trucks operators shall not operate trucks as drive-up windows.
   (19)   No signage shall be allowed except that which is painted on the food
truck body and a portable menu sign no more than 6 square feet in display area
on the ground in the customer waiting area.
   (20)   Vendors shall not erect temporary facilities such as tents, shade
cloths, or temporary restrooms to the site. A single 8-foot portable table and
chairs shall be allowed.
   (21)   Mobile food shall not use amplified sound or music to attract the
public and must follow all Town sound ordinance requirements.
   (22)   Alcohol shall not be sold from mobile food units.
   (23)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this article or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty of up to $50.00 or as modified by the Town of Canton’s Code of
Ordinances. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (24)   All mobile food vendors shall operate in conjunction with a permitted
restaurant or commissary in accordance with 15A NCAC 18A.2670, General
Requirements for Pushcarts and Mobile Food Units, or operate as its own
commissary in accordance with G.S. § 130A-248(c1).
   (25)   Mobile food unit vendor shall submit signed copies of commissary
agreement to the Town as a condition for a vending permit.
(Amended by Ord. of 2/8/94; As Amended by Ord of 8/12/97; As Amended by Ord. of
9/25/01; As Amended by Ord. of 1/12/10; As Amended by Ord. of 11/27/12; As
Amended by Ord. of 1/22/13; As Amended by Ord. of 3/26/15; As Amended by Ord.
of 9/27/18; As Amended by Ord. of 12/10/20; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4029 I-2 heavy industrial district.
   (a)   Intent. This district is established to provide areas for
manufacturing, warehousing and similar uses.
   (b)   Permitted uses:
   (1)   Any use permitted in a light industrial district.
   (2)   Automobile wrecking yards and similar types of used materials
industries when conducted within a structure on a lot enclosed by a solid fence
at least six feet in height, provided the fence shall not be less than 40 feet
from any street right-of- way line; and provided further that the Zoning Board
of Adjustment finds that such a wrecking yard or industry will not have an
injurious effect on the public interest or welfare.
   (3)   Brick, tile and terra cotta manufacturing.
   (4)   Circuses, carnivals, fairs and sideshows.
   (5)   Foundries producing iron and steel products.
   (6)   Hatcheries.
   (7)   Industrial equipment machinery repair and service.
   (8)   Machine tool manufacturing.
   (9)   Meat packing plants.
   (10)   Plastics manufacturing.
   (11)   Pottery, porcelain and vitreous china manufacture.
   (12)   Poultry dressing for wholesale.
   (13)   Railroad freight yards or classification yards.
   (14)   Signs. No flashing illumination.
   (15)   Wholesale storage of gasoline or bulk terminal plants for any highly
explosive or inflammable gases or liquids.
   (16)   Manufacturing uses not otherwise named herein upon the approval of
the Zoning Board of Adjustment provided that no use shall be permitted in this
section which is likely to be dangerous, offensive, or detrimental to the
health, safety, welfare, or general character of this zoning district; or the
community by reason of the emission of dust, gas, smoke, noise, fumes, odors,
vibration, glare or otherwise.
   (17)   Existing single or multi- family residential dwelling units may be
replaced with same size building.
   (18)   Churches and their customary related uses.
   (19)   Mobile food units.
   (c)   Special uses.
   (1)   Flea markets.
   (d)   Special requirements for mobile food units.
   (1)   Mobile food units shall only operate on private property located in
approved commercial or industrial zones, with written permission from the
property owner. Operations of a mobile food unit(s) on Town property may be
allowed under one of the following circumstances:
   a.   In association with a privately hosted and/or organized event
previously approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen/Alderwomen for co-
sponsorship by the Town; or
   b.   At any event hosted and/or organized by the Town on any Town-owned
property, at Recreation Park in lieu operated concessions, and in any other
circumstance that the Town Manager or his or her designated staff feel a mobile
food unit(s) could have a positive impact.
   1.   Additionally, under this provision the Town has full discretion in the
selection of mobile food trucks for participation, the application process,
requirements, number, etc., as determined by need.
   2.   In the event the Town, at its discretion, chooses to require a permit
fee for an event (in the form of a vendor fee and/or deposit), failure of the
vendor to provide agreed upon services and/or notify the Town within seven (7)
days prior to the event if they are unable to participate will result in
forfeiture of any permit fee or deposit paid.
   (2)   A private property owner allowing mobile food vending must ensure
there is adequate code parking on the site for patrons, including a designated
space for the mobile food unit.
   (3)   Mobile foot units shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from brick
and mortar restaurants.
   (4)   Mobile food units shall be positioned in an existing parking space,
must be set back from fire lanes, hydrants, utility boxes, and loading areas,
and shall not block driveways. Units shall not be allowed within property
setbacks.
   (5)   Units shall not be permitted to vend in a public right-of-way unless
approved for a special event.
   (6)   All mobile food units shall purchase a permit from the Town to operate
within its corporate limits, the cost of which is established annually in the
Town's Fee Schedule. Permits shall be renewed each year. Additionally, the
mobile food unit wishing to operate must provide a signed County Health
Department permit before permit approval will be issued.
   (7)   Permit applications shall require proof of a valid driver's license,
proof of insurance, photos of the mobile food unit, copies of Health Department
certificate, and a description of the food and beverages to be sold.
   (8)   The Town permit and approved Health Department health inspection grade
certificate shall be placed on mobile food units in a conspicuous location.
   (9)   A mobile food unit vendor shall submit a letter of approval from
private property owners they intend to partner with for vending. The letter
shall include a location map for the site, address, a site plan showing
theproposed location for the mobile unit, and a list of any special conditions
imposed.
   (10)   The Town Manager shall have the ability to revoke mobile food permits
if the operation causes parking issues, traffic congestion, litter problems,
and/or health and safety risks either on or off the property where the vending
occurs.
   (11)   Pushcarts selling food shall not be allowed as permitted uses unless
for Town-approved special events. Pushcarts shall not block sidewalks and must
allow a minimum of 48-inch clearance for pedestrians and must not exceed 42
inches in width, 77 inches in length, or 60 inches in height.
   (12)   Pushcarts selling food shall require the same health inspection as
food trucks and shall be required to pay the Town a one-time permit fee per
event, as established by the Town’s Fee Schedule.
   (13)   Mobile food vendors shall not operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
   (14)   Mobile food vendors shall return to their commissary at the end of
each business day as required by State and County Health Codes.
   (15)   Mobile food vendors shall provide trash and recycling receptacles for
customers and clean up all litter from the property prior to departure.
   (16)   Mobile food units can use generators if they operate at 65 decibels
or less and if they are properly attached to the mobile food vehicle, per the
manufacturer's standards.
   (17)   Mobile food units must be registered and insured and in good working
condition. Units must be properly registered with the DMV, clean, painted, and
free of rust and damage.
   (18)   Food truck operators shall not operate trucks as drive-up windows.
   (19)   No signage shall be allowed except that which is painted on the food
truck body and a portable menu sign no more than 6 square feet in display area
on the ground in the customer waiting area.
   (20)   Vendors shall not erect temporary facilities such as tents, shade
cloths, or temporary restrooms to the site. A single 8-foot portable table and
chairs shall be allowed.
   (21)   Mobile food shall not use amplified sound or music to attract the
public and must follow all Town sound ordinance requirements.
   (22)   Alcohol shall not be sold from mobile food units.
   (23)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this article or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty of up to $50.00 or as modified by the Town of Canton’s Code of
Ordinances. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (24)   All mobile food vendors shall operate in conjunction with a permitted
restaurant or commissary in accordance with 15A NCAC 18A.2670, General
Requirements for Pushcarts and Mobile Food Units, or operate as its own
commissary in accordance with G.S. § 130A-248(c1).
   (25)   Mobile food unit vendor shall submit signed copies of commissary
agreement to the Town as a condition for a vending permit.
(Amended by Ord. of 2/8/94; As Amended by Ord of 8/12/97; As Amended by Ord. of
9/25/01; As Amended by Ord. of 1/12/10; As Amended by Ord. of 11/27/12; As
Amended by Ord. of 1/22/13; As Amended by Ord. of 3/26/15; As Amended by Ord.
of 9/27/18; As Amended by Ord. of 12/10/20; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4030 F-1 floodway district.
   (a)   Intent. A flood district as shown on the Zoning Map of Canton is
established to meet the needsof the Pigeon River to carry abnormal flows of
water in time of flood; to prevent encroachments into the district which will
unduly increase flood heights and damage; and to prevent the loss of life and
excessive damage to property in the area of greatest flood hazard. Within the
floodway district, the following provisions shall apply:
   (b)   Uses permitted. The following uses are permitted subject to approval
of the Canton Planning Board and to the conditions as the Planning Board may
specify to protect the public interest, and which do not conflict with uses
permitted in adjoining districts.
   (1)   Open-type uses, such as loading and unloading areas, parking lots,
used car lots, billboards, and gardens auxiliary to uses permitted in any
adjoining district.
   (2)   Storage yards for equipment and material not subject to major damage
by floods, and which would not float away; provided such use is auxiliary to
uses permitted in an adjoining district and material do not include
inflammables such as gasoline.
   (3)   Open-type public and private recreation facilities such as public
parks, golf courses and driving ranges, drive-in theaters, fishing lakes, and
boat docks.
   (4)   Circus, carnival, and similar transient amusement enterprises.
   (5)   Agricultural uses, including farming, grazing, and livestock raising.
   (6)   Utilities, road and railroad bridges, electric and other transmission
lines, but not transformer stations.
   (7)   Any other uses customarily accessory or incidental to the above uses.
   (c)   Uses prohibited. The following uses are specifically prohibited in the
floodway district.
   (1)   Structures designed for or utilized for human habitation.
   (2)   Structures which could be floated away and thus further restrict
bridge openings and other restricted sections of the stream.
   (3)   Filling of land or dumping of debris.
   (4)   Storage of materials, such as logs, lumber, tanks, etc., which could
be floated away and restrict bridge openings.
   (5)   Storage of toxic chemicals or inflammables such as gasoline.
   (d)   Special provisions. No permit shall be issued for the construction of
any building or any use within the floodway district until the plans for the
construction or use have been submitted to the Canton Planning Board and
approval is given in writing for the construction or use. The Planning Board
may make its approval subject to the conditions necessary to carry out the
purpose of this district. In its review of plans submitted, the Planning Board
shall be guided by the following standards, keeping in mind that the purpose of
this district is to prevent encroachment into the floodway which will unduly
increase flood heights and endanger life and property.
   (1)   Any uses permitted shall be a type not appreciably damaged by flood
waters.
   (2)   Any structures permitted shall be designed, constructed, and placed so
as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water.
   (3)   Where, in the opinion of the Planning Board, there is need for
topographical data, engineering studies or other information to determine the
effects of flooding on a proposed structure or the effect of the structure on
the flow of water, the Planning Board may require the applicant to submit such
information.
   (4)   The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not constitute
a representation, guarantee, or warranty of any kind or nature by the Town of
Canton or the Canton Planning Board, or by any officer or employee of either
thereof, of the practicality or safety of any structure or use proposed and
shall create no liability upon or cause action against such public body,
officer, or employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4031 W-P watershed protection district
   (a)   Intent. The intent of the watershed protection district is:
   (1)   To protect, maintain, and enhance both the immediate and long term
public health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the Town of
Canton by protecting the Rough Creek Watershed as a public drinking water
source.
   (2)   To minimize sedimentation and pollution of the public drinking water
source as a result of land development in the area around the watershed.
   (3)   To permit reasonable use of land within the area around the watershed
which will not adversely affect the quality of water resources.
   (b)   District boundaries. The boundaries of the watershed protection
district are hereby established on the map entitled, “Watershed Protection
District Zoning Map, Town of Canton, North Carolina.” Said map accompanies and
is hereby incorporated as a part of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Canton,
North Carolina. Said map shall be retained in the office of the Town Clerk.
These boundaries are further defined as being the same as the extraterritorial
jurisdiction boundary, a written description of which is contained in the
“Ordinance Establishing Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Authority for the Town of
Canton, North Carolina.”
   (c)   Permitted uses. Land, buildings, and other structures may be used for
any purpose not specifically listed as a prohibited use under subsection (d) of
this section.
   (d)   Prohibited uses. No land or structure located in the W-P watershed
protection district shall be used for any of the following purposes:
   (1)   Abattoirs.
   (2)   Flammable liquids or gases (bulk storage above ground).
   (3)   Flammable liquids or gases (bulk storage below ground).
   (4)   Hazardous materials (as defined by EPA’s Hazardous Substances or
Priority Pollutants lists), storage, use, or disposal except such as is
ordinary and necessary for usage in the conduct of normal farming operations.
   (5)   Laboratories (industrial processes).
   (6)   Sanitary landfills.
   (7) Any processing or manufacture of any products from any material
(including, but not limited to, animal or vegetable matter, chemicals or
chemical compounds, gas or oil, glass, metals, minerals, stones, or earth).
   (8)   Quarries or other extractive industries.
   (9)   Nuclear repositories (both high and low level).
   (10)   Junkyards.
   (e)   Special provisions. The following special provisions shall be enforced
in the W-P watershed protection district:
   (1)   No septic tank or other sewage treatment or disposal system shall be
located closer than one hundred (100) feet from the watershed boundary.
   (2)   No building or other structure shall be located closer than fifty (50)
feet from the watershed boundary in order to provide a second line fire break
between the watershed forest and the building or structure.
   (3)   No alteration, by excavation, grading, or otherwise of the natural
slope of the earth shall occur closer than fifty (50) feet from the watershed
boundary.
   (4)   No multi-family dwelling or recreational facility including, but not
limited to, lodges and clubhouses, shall be located closer than one thousand
(1,000) feet from the watershed boundary.
   (f)   Exception. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the
provisions of the following sections of this section shall not apply to any use
of land or structures in the W-P watershed protection district:
   (1)   Section
9-4004, Definitions:
      No. (18) Construction office, temporary.
      No. (19) Customary home occupation.
      No. (40) Group project.
      No. (62) Sign, advertising: incidental or accessory.
      No. (65) Sign, outdoor advertising.
   (2)   Section
9-4041: Area, yard, and height requirements.
   (3)   Section
9-4055: Only one principal building on any lot.
   (4)   Section
9-4062: Off-street automobile parking and storage.
   (5)   Section
9-4063: Off-street loading and unloading space.
   (6)   Section
9-4076: Group projects.
   (7)   Section
9-4078: Gasoline service or filling stations.
   (8)   Section
9-4079: Signs, and other advertising structures.
   (9)   Section
9-4080: Temporary mobile homes.
(Ord. of 9/15/87; As Amended by Ord. of 9/14/04; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4032 C-A Pigeon River Critical Area Watershed Protection District.
   (a)   Intent. It is the intent of this district to implement the provisions
of the Water Supply Watershed Protection Act (G.S. § 143-214.5) within the
critical area of the Pigeon River Watershed. The provisions of this district
are applicable to all property located within the designated water supply
critical area as shown on the Official Zoning Map of the town. Whenever there
is a conflict between this section and any other provision of this section, the
stricter requirement shall apply.
   (b)   Definitions. The following definitions apply only to enforcement of
this section:
   Agricultural use. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation, and
other farm purposes.
   Animal unit. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
   Best management practices (BMP). A structural or non-structural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   Buffer. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   Built-upon area. Built-upon areas shall include that portion of a
development project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover
including buildings, pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities, (e.g.
Tennis courts), and the like. (Note: Wooden slatted decks and the water area of
a swimming pool are considered pervious.)
   Cluster development. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes nonresidential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multi-family developments that do not involve the subdivision
of land.
   Composting facility. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass
and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
   Critical area. The area adjacent to a water supply intake where risk
associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of the
watershed. The critical area is defined as extending one-half mile upstream
from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-river), or
the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first). Local governments may
extend the critical area as needed. Major landmarks such as highways or
property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the critical area
if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate outer boundary
of one-half mile.
   Development. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   Discharging landfill. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and other
measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment and in
which the leachate is treated on site and discharged to a receiving stream.
   Existing development. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of September 14, 1993 based on at least one of the following criteria:
   (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on a
good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project, or
   (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by the
General Statutes (G.S. § 160D-108), or
   (3)   Having expended substantial resources (time, labor, money,) and having
an approved site specific or phased development plan as authorized by the
General Statutes (G.S. § 160D-108).
   Hazardous material. Any substance listed as such in: SARA section 302,
Extremely Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or Section 311 of
CWA (oil and hazardous substances).
   Industrial development. Any non-residential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   Landfill. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with Chapter 130A Article 9 of the N.C. General Statutes.
For the purpose of this section this term does not include composting
facilities.
   Major variance. A variance that results in any one or more of the following:
   (1)   The complete waiver of a management requirement;
   (2)   The relaxation, by a factor of more than ten (10) percent, of any
management requirement that takes the, form of a numerical standard;
   Minor variance. A variance that does not qualify as a major variance.
   Residential development. Buildings for residential use such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums, townhouse,
cottages, etc., and their associated outbuildings such as garages, storage
buildings, gazebos, and the like, and customary home occupations.
   Toxic substance. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their
offspring or other adverse health effects.
   Water dependent structure. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or citing within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage areas are not water dependent structures.
   Watershed. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g. the water supply intake).
   (c)   Permitted uses.
   (1)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act of
1985, and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
Agricultural activities conducted after January 1, 1993, shall maintain a
minimum ten (10) foot vegetative buffer, or equivalent control as determined by
the Soil and Water Conservation Commission, along all perennial waters
indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale
topographic maps or as determined by local government studies. Animal
operations greater than 100 animal units shall employ best management practices
by July 1, 1994, recommended by the Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
   (2)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101-.0209).
   (3)   Residential development, including both single family and all other
residential.
   (4)   Non-residential development, excluding: a) the storage of toxic and
hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is implemented, b)
landfills, and c) sites for land application of sludge/residuals or petroleum
contaminated soils. New industrial development is required to incorporate
adequately designed,constructed and maintained spill containment structures if
hazardous materials are either used, stored, or manufactured on the premises.
   (d)   Density and built-upon limits.
   (1)   Single-family residential. Development shall not exceed one dwelling
unit per two (2) acres, but not to exceed a maximum of six (6) percent built-
upon area on a project by project basis. No residential lot shall be less than
two (2) acres.
   (2)   All other residential and non- residential. Development shall not
exceed six (6) percent built-upon area on a project by project basis. For the
purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area shall include total
acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
   (e)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the
provisions of the following sections of this ordinance shall not apply to any
use of land or structure in the C-A Pigeon River Critical Area Watershed
Protection District:
   (1)   Section
9-4004, Definition of terms, part (c).
   (2)   Section
9-4041, Schedule of requirements.
   (3)   Section
9-4055, Only one principal building on any lot.
   (4)   Section
9-4061, Nonconforming uses.
   (5)   Section
9-4062, Off-street automobile parking and storage.
   (6)   Section
9-4063, Off-street loading and unloading space.
   (7)   Section
9-4071, Lot of record.
   (8)   Section
9-4072, Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
   (9)   Section
9-4073, Height limitations.
   (10)   Section
9-4074, Visibility at intersections.
   (11)   Section
9-4075, Projections into required open space.
   (12)   Section
9-4076, Group Projects.
   (13)   Section
9-4078, Gasoline service or filling stations.
   (14)   Section
9-4079, Signs, billboards and other advertising structures.
   (15)   Section
9-4080, Temporary mobile home.
   (16)   Section
9-4082, Side yard setback for dwellings.
   A deeded single family residential lot existing prior to the effective date
of this section shall not be subject to the provisions of this section when
located in the C-A Pigeon River Critical Area Watershed Protection District.
   (f)   Cluster development. Clustering of development is allowed under the
following conditions:
   (1)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single family detached developments. Built-upon area
or stormwater control requirements of the project shall not exceed that allowed
in this ordinance.
   (2)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flows.
   (3)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. Where the development has an incorporated property owners' association,
the title for open space held in common shall be conveyed to the association
for management. Where a property association is not incorporated, a maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the property deeds.
   (g)   Buffer areas required.
   (1)   A minimum 30 foot vegetative buffer for development activities is
required along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by city
studies. Desirable artificial streambank or shoreline stabilization is
permitted.
   (2)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water dependent
structures and public projects such as road crossings and greenways where no
practical alternative exists. These activities should minimize built-upon
surface area, direct runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the
utilization of stormwater best management practices.
   (h)   Existing development. Any existing development as defined in this
section may be continued and maintained subject to the provisions provided
herein. Expansions to structures classified as existing development must meet
the requirements of this section; however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the density calculations. Any
existing building or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions
of this article that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or
reconstructed, except that there are no restrictions on single-family
residential development, provided the total amount of space devoted to built-
upon area may not be increased unless stormwater control that equals or exceeds
the previous development is provided.
   (i)   Public health.
   (1)   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within
the watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health,
safety and welfare. Such conditions may arise from inadequate on-site sewage
systems which utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and erosion
control measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other
refuse within a buffer area; the absence or improper implementation of a spill
containment plan for toxic and hazardous materials; the improper management of
stormwater runoff; or any other situation found to pose a threat to water
quality.
   (2)   The Administrator shall monitor land use activities within the
watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to water quality.
If such situations are identified they shall be considered a violation of this
section.
   (j)   Administration.
   (1)   The Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to this section
and shall provide copies of all such amendments to the Supervisor of the
Classification and Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of
Environmental Management.
   (2)   The Administrator shall keep a record of variances to this section.
This record shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the Classification and
Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of Environmental Management,
on or before January 1st of the following year and shall provide a description
of each project receiving a variance and the reasons for granting the variance.
   (k)   Changes and amendments to this section.
   (1)   The Canton Board of Aldermen may on its own motion or on petition,
after public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify the
watershed regulations and restrictions as described in this section.
   (2)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Aldermen adopt such
amendments, supplements or changes that would cause this ordinance to violate
the watershed protection rules as adopted by the Environmental Management
Commission. All amendments must be filed with the N.C. Division of
Environmental Management, N.C. Division of Environmental Health, and the N.C.
Division of Community Assistance.
   (l)   Variances.
   (1)   Variances to this section may be granted under procedures outlined in
this section.
   (2)   The Administrator shall notify in writing each local government having
jurisdiction in the watershed and the entity using the water supply for
consumption whenever a variance request is filed. Such notice shall include a
description of the variance being requested. Local government or other entities
receiving notice of the variance request may submit comments to the
Administrator prior to a decision by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Such
comments shall become part of the record of proceedings of the Board.
   (3)   An Equitable Density Credit (EDC) variance may be granted in
mountainous watersheds where portion of the total tract acreage is greater than
30% slope. Higher density development may be granted on portions of total tract
acreage less than 30% slope. The Soil Conservation Service or a certified
surveyor must determine the portions of acreage greater than or less than 30%
slope. EDC is equal to the number of additional dwellings (du) or equivalent
impervious area that may be built upon that portion of the tract that is less
than 30% slope. Where the EDC variance is granted, the remaining portion of the
tract greater than 30% slope must remain undeveloped and retained in its
natural vegetation cover. This latter environment produces high quality water
in orographic watersheds, which compensates for granting higher densities
elsewhere.
Formula:
EDC = No. acres in tract greater than 30% slope
            (1 du/2 ac)
   The total EDC or equivalent impervious area may be applied at the property
owner’s discretion, to increase density on the remaining portion of the tract
with less than 30% slope. However, the granted additional density can be no
greater than 1 du/ac or 12% impervious area/ac for both residential and
nonresidential development. Stormwater controls may be required on some sites.
In addition, the Town of Canton shall notify and allow a reasonable comment
period for all other local governments having jurisdiction in the designated
watershed where the variance is being considered.
Examples:
   Property owner “A” has a 150 acre mountainous tract. A survey reveals that
50 acres are greater than 30% slope, and the remaining 100 acres are less than
30% slope.
         EDC =  50ac  = 25 du
             1 du/1 ac
   The additional 25 du or equivalent impervious area may be added to the
remaining 100 acres that are less than 30% slope.
   Property owner “B” has a 3.7 acre tract. A survey reveals that 1.9 acres are
greater than 30% slope and the remaining 1.8 acres are less than 30% slope.
         EDC =  1.9ac  = .95 du
             1 du/2 ac
   The equivalent impervious area of 0.9 du may be added to the remaining 1.8
acres, which already qualify for a ratio proportion (1 du/2ac) of 0.90 du or
equivalent impervious area. Thus, property owner “B” qualifies for a total of
1.85 du or equivalent impervious are to be built upon the remaining 1.8 acres
less than 30% slope. However, since a variance cannot be granted for greater
than l du/ac, only a total of 1.80 du or equivalent impervious area can be
built upon the remaining 1.8 acres less than 30% slope.
   (4)   If the application calls for the granting of a major variance, and if
the Zoning Board of Adjustment decides in favor of granting the variance, the
Board shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate
speed. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
   -   the variance application;
   -   the hearing notices;
   -   the evidence presented;
   -   motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence and rulings on them;
   -   proposed findings and exceptions; and
   -   the proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be added to
the permit.
   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environ-Management Commission
for its review as follows:
   (a)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that 1) the property owner can
secure no reasonable return from, nor make any practical use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted, and 2) the variance, if granted, will
not result in a serious threat to the water supply, then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed or approved the proposed variance with
conditions and stipulations. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision
and send it to the Zoning Board of Adjustment. If the Commission approves the
variance with conditions and stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final
decision, including such conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed
variance.
   (b)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that 1) the property owner can
secure a reasonable return from or make a practical use of the property without
the variance, or 2) the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat
to the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying
the variance as proposed.
(Ord. of 9/14/93; as amended by Ord. of 5/10/94; as amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4033 M.H. Manufactured Home Overlay District.
   (1)   Intent. The M.H. Manufactured Home Overlay District is established as
a district providing for the location of manufactured homes to allow for
increased housing opportunities for low and moderate income residents in a
manner that protects the character and property values of existing residential
areas.
   (2)   Permitted uses.
   (a)   All uses permitted in the underlying district where the overlay
district is applied.
   (b)   Manufactured homes provided that:
   (1)   All manufactured homes are located on lots that meet all requirements
of the town’s current zoning, subdivision and other regulations, such as those
relating to size, width and access to a public street;
   (2)   No lot shall contain more than one manufactured home, and no lot with
a manufactured home may contain another dwelling unit or any other structure
except a permissible accessory structure;
   (3)   The manufactured home meets or exceeds the construction standards
promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were
in effect at the time of construction;
   (4)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its width;
   (5)   The manufactured home has a minimum of twelve hundred (1,200) square
feet of enclosed living area:
   (6)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum vertical
rise of two and two-tenths feet for each twelve feet of horizontal run (2.2'
and 12') and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used
in standard residential construction;
   (7)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (that does not exceed the reflectivity of gloss white
paint), wood, or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction;
   (8)   The home is set up in accordance with the standards set by the N.C.
Department of Insurance and a continuous, permanent masonry foundation or
curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation and access, is
installed under the manufactured home;
   (9)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms and other means of entrance and
exit to the home shall be installed or constructed in accordance with the
standards set by the N.C. Department of Insurance; and
   (10)   The moving hitch, wheels, and axles and transporting lights have been
removed. (Ord. of 7/26/94; as amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4034 through 9-4040 reserved.
ARTICLE D
Area, Yard and Height Requirements
Section 9-4041 Schedule of requirements.
   The following standards governing lot areas and building setbacks shall
apply in the zoning districts established in this chapter.
                  Lot Area Per  Minimum Lot Minimum Setback From
 Minimum Lot Area Dwelling Unit Width       Property Line        Height
                                            Front1 Side Rear
             Minimum Lot Lot Area Per  Minimum Lot Minimum Setback From
             Area        Dwelling Unit Width       Property Line        Height
                                                   Front1 Side  Rear
Single-
family,      8,000*      8,000*        60 feet     25     10    10      35
detached
Single-
family,      1,200       - -           16 feet     20     0/102 10      35
attached
General                  8,000* first,
residence    8,000*      3,000 each    60 feet     25     10    10      50
                         additional
Central      --          --            --          --     --    --      50
business
General      --          --            --          10     10    --      50
business
Neighborhood --          --            --          25     10    10      50
business
Highway      --          --            --          35     10    --      50
business
Light        --          --            --          35     10    --      --
industrial
Heavy        --          --            --          35     10    --      --
industrial
Floodway     --          --            --          --     --    --      --
 
1 See article G, section 9-4072.
2 Interior lots within a row of attached units, do not have a minimum side yard
setback. However, end units shall have a 10' setback.
* 10,000 square feet if no public sewerage is available.
20,000 square feet if no public water or sewerage is available.
10,000 additional square feet for each additional dwelling unit when public
water and/or sewerage is not available.
(As amended by Ord. of 6/24/21; As amended by Ord. of 7/28/22)
Section 9-4042 through 9-4049 reserved.
ARTICLE E
Application of Regulations
Section 9-4050 Wireless Communication Facilities.
   In recognition of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, it is the intent of
the Town of Canton to allow communications providers the opportunity to locate
wireless communication facilities within the jurisdiction of this chapter in
order to provide an adequate level of service to its customers while protecting
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Canton.
   (a)   Application. This section shall regulate the placement, construction
and modification of wireless communication facilities within the jurisdiction
of this chapter. However, the following types of installations are excluded
from the regulations of this section:
   (1)   Amateur radio facilities with antennas mounted on supporting
structures less than 100 feet in height.
   (2)   Televisions, AM radio and FM radio broadcast transmitting antennas and
towers.
   (3)   Residential antennas for receiving television, AM radio or FM radio
broadcast signals.
   (4)   Customer premises antennas for receiving microwave or satellite
signals, provided such antennas are less than one meter (39.4 inches) in height
or diameter and are mounted on a support structure less than 12 feet in height.
   (b)   Location and Permits. Wireless communication towers and attached
wireless communication facilities extending more than 15 feet above the highest
point of the attachment structure may be located in any zoning district,
excluding the Single Family or General Residential district, as a special use
permit is issued by the Board of Adjustment under procedures outlined in this
chapter. Such towers and facilities shall be subject to all requirements of
this and all other applicable sections of this chapter. Attached wireless
communication facilities extending not more than 15 feet above the highest
point of the attachment structure may be located in any zoning district,
excluding the Single Family or General Residential district, after issuance of
a zoning permit under the provisions of this chapter. Such facilities shall
meet all applicable requirements of this chapter and all other applicable town
codes.
   (c)   Placement and Setbacks. Wireless communication towers shall be
situated in such a manner as to not fall across a public street or adjoining
property line in the event of structural failure. Such assurance shall be made
by either situating the tower a distance from the street of adjoining property
line that is greater than the height of the tower or by using a self-collapsing
or telescoping structure that will collapse upon itself. Any self-collapsing or
telescoping design structure must be documented by a registered engineer or
architect. Required setbacks for both the communications tower and any
accessory structure shall not be less than those specified in this chapter.
   (d)   Lighting and Height. No wireless communication tower shall be of a
type or height, or placed in a location that the Federal Aviation
Administration would require the tower to be lighted or painted. The applicant
shall be required to certify that the proposed tower is not required to be
painted or illuminated by any FAA rule or regulation. In any case, no tower
shall exceed 190 feet in height measured from its base at grade to its highest
point.
   (e)   Co-location Requirements. All new wireless communication towers with a
height of 100 feet or more shall be designed and constructed to provide for the
co-location of a minimum of two additional services. A written document, signed
and sealed by a registered professional engineer, licensed in North Carolina,
indicating that the proposed tower will accommodate at least two additional
users shall be submitted with the special use permit application. Written
documentation, signed by the owner or his representative, indicating that
future co- locations on the proposed tower will be allowed and made available
at fair market value shall also be submitted.
   (f)   Relationship with Existing Towers. New wireless communication towers
shall not be located closer than 1,320 feet to an existing wireless
communication tower unless the applicant submits written documentation
sufficient, to the satisfaction of the Board of Adjustment, to show that the
proposed facilities cannot be accommodated on the existing tower.
   (g)   FCC License Required. The applicant for a new wireless communication
tower must currently be licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
to provide fixed or mobile wireless communication services or, if the applicant
is not such an FCC licensee, must demonstrate that it has binding commitments
from one or more FCC licensees to utilize the proposed tower.
   (h)   Graphics and Text. No graphics or text shall be displayed on a
wireless communication tower.
   (i)   Fencing and Screening. All wireless communication towers and their
ancillary and accessory structures and equipment shall be enclosed within a
secured fence. The name and telephone number of the tower owner and operator
shall be posted on the site for emergencies. If located in a residential zoning
district, the fenced area shall be screened with evergreen trees on all
exterior sides visible from adjacent properties and public or private roads.
The trees shall be species native to the local area and shall be at least eight
feet in height when planted. The trees shall be planted eight feet apart in two
staggered rows. The trees shall be maintained and all dead material shall be
replaced by the next growing season. A proposed screening plan shall be
submitted with the application.
   (j)   Removal of Abandoned Wireless Communication Towers. If the permitted
use of any wireless communication tower ceases for a continuous period of 90
days, the owner of the tower or the owner of the property on which the tower is
located shall be required to dismantle and remove the entire tower structure
within 90 days of notification that the 90 day period has expired. The owner of
the tower shall provide the town’s Administrator a copy of the notice to cease
operation which is filed with the FCC, within seven days of filing said notice
with the FCC.
(Ord. of 8-24-99; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4051 Use.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building or land shall hereafter be used
or occupied and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected,
moved or structurally altered except in conformity with the regulations of this
article, or amendments thereto, for the district in which it is located.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4052 Height and density.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building shall hereafter be erected or
altered so as to exceed the height limit, or to exceed the density regulations
of this article for the district in which it is located.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4053 Lot size.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no lot, even though it may consist of one
(1) or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that the lot
width or depth, front, side, or rear yards, lot area per family or other
requirements of this article are not maintained. This prohibition shall not be
construed to prevent the condemnation of narrow strips of land for public
utilities or street right-of-way purposes. (Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4054 Yard use limitations.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no part of a yard or other open space
required about any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this article shall be included as a part of a yard or other open space
similarly required for another building.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4055 Only one principal building on any lot.
   Except as hereinafter provided, only one (1) principal building and its
customary accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any lot, except as
authorized by section
9-4076, nor shall any building be erected on any lot which does not abut at
least 25 feet on a publicly dedicated or maintained street.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4056 Parking of vehicles in residential districts.
   The parking of vehicles in excess of twenty (20) feet in length, from bumper
to bumper, or 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight shall be prohibited in
residential districts, with the following exceptions:
   (1)   Recreation Vehicles (RVs) as defined in this ordinance. No more than
one such vehicle shall be parked on any lot.
   (2)   For temporary loading and unloading purposes.
   (3)   For emergency home service.
   (4)   Vehicles hauling forestry products on Cedar Street.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, any use not in
conformance with this section within five (5) days of its effective date shall
be in violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. of 9/26/95; Amended by Ord. of 6/11/96; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4057 Flea markets.
   Flea markets are allowed as a special use in the C-4, I-1, I-2; (Highway
Business, Light Industrial, Heavy Industrial) Zoning District. All flea markets
established within the Town of Canton are required to adhere to the following
regulations:
   (a)   A minimum lot area of two (2) acres is required.
   (b)   Flea market uses will not be allowed as an accessory use.
   (c)   Adequate and safe public restrooms and/or toilet facilities are
required based on the projected occupancy and State Building Code requirements.
   (d)   All outdoor articles (as defined in “flea markets”), display tables
and/or racks, tents, tarps, shelters, coverings of any type, or vehicles are
allowed Friday through Sunday only.
   (e)   Any camping on premises is prohibited.
   (f)   Preparation and sale of perishable foods shall be regulated by G.S. §§
130A-247 and 130A-248, and T15A NCAC 18A.2600, Chapter 106 Article 12 106-120
through 106-145, and Article 26 106-246 through 106-268.1.
   (g)   Sale or trade of exotic, domestic, or farm animals shall be
prohibited.
   (h)   The property owner/lessor/rental agency shall be responsible for all
products and services offered by individual vendors(tenant spaces, booths,
tables, accessory uses, and the like);
   (i)   The property owner/lessor/rental agency is required to obtain a Town
of Canton business license and shall require all vendors ( not otherwise
licensed for whom a license is required or) who conduct business on a regular
basis to receive a Town of Canton business license prior to operation.
   (j)   Any special events involving conventions, shows, or other events
outside of normal operation of the flea market shall require a special events
permit. This includes, but is not limited to: auctions, antique shows,
traveling road shows, conventions, races, gun shows, boat shows, car shows,
collective garage or yard sales, live entertainment, circuses, fairs, carnivals
and festivals.
   (k)   A physical buffer (fencing, 8 foot tall shrubbery and the like) or a
50 foot setback on lot lines of adjacent properties.
   (l)   A minimum of two (2) customer parking spaces for each vendor site must
be provided in an adjacent or separate lot. A parking area shall have a minimum
of a 20 foot setback from any street or highway.
   (m)   Sales or display areas shall not encroach upon any required setback,
block sidewalks or parking areas, or impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (n)   A sketch plan showing dimensions shall be submitted showing all
required spaces, facilities, parking and setbacks.
   (o)   The property must be in compliance with all Town of Canton Code of
Ordinances as well as applicable county, state, and federal laws and
regulations.
   (p)   A violation of any condition shall be grounds to revoke the special
use permit as well as subject the property owner/lessor/rental agency to
penalties per section 9-5032 of the Town of Canton Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 9/27/11; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4058 through 9-4060 reserved.
ARTICLE F
Nonconforming Use and Off-Street Parking and Loading
Section 9-4061 Nonconfonning use.
   It is the intent of this section to discourage the survival of nonconforming
uses and to prohibit their enlargement, expansion or extension. Any building,
structure or use of land existing at the time of the enactment of this article
or any amendment thereto may be continued subject to the following provisions.
They shall not be:
   (1)   Changed to another nonconforming use.
   (2)   Enlarged or extended except in conformity with this article.
   (3)   Reestablished after discontinuance for 180 days.
   (4)   Rebuilt, altered or repaired after damage exceeding 60 percent of its
fair market value immediately prior to damage.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/21/24)
Section 9-4062 Off-street automobile parking and storage.
   Off-street automobile parking or storage space shall be provided on every
lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established in all
districts except the central business district; or provided that no parking
space can be reasonably provided on the same lot, the space shall be provided
on any lot, a substantial portion of which is within 500 feet of such uses. No
certificate of occupancy will be issued upon completion of any building or
group of buildings unless and until all off-street parking and loading
requirements, shown upon the plans or made part of the building permit, shall
be in place and ready for use. The required parking space for any number of
separate uses may be combined in one lot but the required space assigned to one
use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that one-half
(½) of the parking space required for churches, theaters or assembly halls
whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use
which will be closed at nights or on Sundays. Each automobile parking space
shall be not less than 200 square feet in area exclusive of adequate access
drives and maneuvering space, so that no vehicle is required to back into the
street, except from single-family dwellings. The space shall be provided with
vehicular access to a street or alley; the use shall be equal in number to at
least the minimum requirements for the specific use set forth below:
Use Classification Parking Space requirement
Use Classification                      Parking Space requirement
                                        
                                        One (1) space for each two (2)
                                        employees at maximum employment on a
Automobile sales and repair.            single shift, plus two (2) spaces for
                                        each 300 square feet of repair or
                                        maintenance space.
                                        
                                        Two (2) spaces for each alley, plus one
Bowling alleys.                         (1) additional space for each two (2)
                                        employees.
                                        
Churches.                               One (1) space for each five (5) seats.
                                        
Elementary schools and junior high      One (1) space for each classroom and
schools, both public and private.       administrative office.
                                        
                                        Two (2) spaces for each gas pump plus
Filling stations.                       three (3) spaces for each grease rack
                                        or similar facility.
                                        
                                        One (1) space for each four (4) patient
Hospitals.                              beds plus one (1) space for each staff
                                        or visiting doctor, plus one (1) space
                                        for each four (4) employees.
                                        
                                        One (1) space per two (2)
Hotels.                                 accommodations plus one (1) additional
                                        space for each five (5) employees.
                                        
Mortuary or funeral homes.              One (1) space for each four (4) seats
                                        in the assembly room or chapel.
                                        
                                        One (1) space for each accommodation
Motel, tourist homes or tourist courts. plus two (2) additional spaces for
                                        employees.
                                        
Offices; professional, business, or     One (1) space for each 200 square feet
public, including banks.                of gross floor area.
                                        
                                        Four (4) spaces for each doctor
Medical offices and clinics.            practicing at the clinic, plus one (1)
                                        space for each employee.
                                        
Places of public assembly, including    One (1) space for each four (4) seats
private clubs and lodges, auditoriums,  provided for patron use, plus one (1)
dance halls, pool rooms, theaters,      space for each 100 square feet of floor
stadiums, gymnasiums, amusement parks,  or ground area used for amusement or
community centers, and all similar      assembly but not containing fixed
places of public assembly.              seats.
                                        
                                        One (1) space for each three (3) guest
Rooming and boarding houses.            rooms, plus one (1) additional space
                                        for the owners, if resident on the
                                        premises.
                                        
Residential dwellings.                  One (1) space for each dwelling unit.
                                        
Retail business.                        One (1) space for each 200 square feet
                                        of gross floor area.
                                        
Sanitariums, rest and convalescent      One (1) space for each six (6) patient
homes, homes for the aged, and similar  beds, plus one (1) space for each staff
institutions.                           or visiting doctor, plus one (1) space
                                        for each four (4) employees.
                                        
                                        One (1) space for each 10 students for
Senior high schools and colleges, both  which the school was designed, plus one
public and private.                     (1) space for each classroom and
                                        administrative office.
                                        
Mobile home parks.                      Two (2) spaces for each mobile home.
                                        
                                        One (1) space for each two (2)
                                        employees at maximum employment on a
Wholesaling and industrial uses.        single shift, plus one (1) space for
                                        each company vehicle operating on the
                                        premises.
 
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4063 Off-street loading and unloading space.
   Every building or structure used for business, trade or industry hereafter
erected, shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading
of vehicles off the street or public alley. The space shall have access to an
alley or, if there is no alley, to a street. For the purpose of this section an
off- street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of l2 feet by 40 feet
and an overhead clearance of 14 feet in height above the alley or street grade.
   (1)   Retail business. One (1) space for each 5,000 square feet of floor
area.
   (2)   Wholesale and industry. One (1) space for each 10,000 square feet of
floor space.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4064 through 9-4070 reserved.
ARTICLE G
Exceptions and Modifications
Section 9-4071 Lot of record.
   Where the owner of a lot of official record in any district at the time of
the adoption of this chapter or his successor in title thereto does not own
sufficient contiguous land to enable him to conform to the minimum lot size
requirements of this chapter, such lot may be used as a building site provided
that the lot requirements are not reduced below the minimum specified in this
chapter by more than 20 percent. If, however, the owner of two (2) or more
adjoining lots, with insufficient land dimensions, decides to build on or sell
off these lots, he must first combine the lots to comply with the dimensional
requirements of the chapter. Any lot requiring dimensional waivers below the 20
percent minimum set forth in this section shall be approved by the Zoning Board
of Adjustment provided that further decreased dimensional requirements shall
conform as closely as possible to the required dimensions.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4072 Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
   The front yard setback requirements of this article for dwellings shall not
apply to any lot where the average setback of existing buildings located wholly
or partially within 100 feet on either side of the proposed dwelling, and on
the same side of the same block and use district, and fronting on the same
street as such lot, is less than the minimum required front yard depth. In such
case the setback on the lots may be less than the required setback, but not
less than the average of the existing setbacks on the aforementioned lots, or a
distance of 10 feet from the street right-of-way line, whichever is greater.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4073 Height limitations.
   The height limitations of this article shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy, monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks
conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, television towers, masts, aerials and
similar structures, except as otherwise provided in the vicinity of airports.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4074 Visibility at intersections.
   On a corner lot in any residential district no planting, structure, sign,
fence, wall or obstruction to vision, more than three (3) feet in height
measured from the center line of the street shall be placed or maintained
within the triangular area formed by the intersecting street right-of-way lines
and a straight line connecting points on the street right-of-way lines each of
which is 35 feet distant from the point of intersection.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4075 Projections into required open space.
   Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest point
to the sky unobstructed, except for:
   (1)   The ordinary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices, buttresses,
ornamental features and eaves; provided, however, that none of the above
projections shall project into a minimum court more than six (6) inches nor
into a minimum side yard more than 24 inches.
   (2)   Open or enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies projecting into a minimum yard or court not more than 50 percent of
the required side yard and the ordinary projections or chimneys and flues may
be permitted by the Administrator where same are so placed as not to obstruct
the light and ventilation.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4076    Group projects.
   In the case of two (2) or more principal buildings to be constructed on a
plot of ground of at least two (2) acres not subdivided into the customary
streets and lots and which will not be so subdivided, the application of the
terms of this article may be varied by the Board of Aldermen in a manner that
will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood, provided:
   (1)   It is legislatively approved as a conditional district in accordance
with
9-4014.
   (2)   The uses are limited to those permitted within the zoning district in
which the project is located;
   (3)   The overall intensity of land use is no higher, and the standard of
open space is no lower than that permitted in the district in which the project
is located;
   (4)   The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall
meet the front, side, and rear yard requirements of the district in which the
project is located;
   (5)   If the property lies within or abuts a residential district, and is to
be used for a nonresidential purpose, there shall be a densely planted buffer
strip at least 10 feet in height along the rear and/or side lot lines abutting
the residential properties. No such buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a
street right-of-way line than the established building line of the adjoining
residential lot.
   (6)   Signs not to exceed 12 square feet with no flashing illumination.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4077 Floodway fringe areas.
   Areas lying outside the floodway district, but within the area covered by
the regional flood, shall be subject to the following regulations:
   (1)   No building or structure shall be erected, and no existing building or
structure shall be extended or moved unless the main floor of the building or
structure is placed outside of the flood hazard areas, as determined from the
FEMA FIRM maps as incorporated by this chapter. Foundations of all structures
shall be designed to withstand flood conditions at the site.
   (2)   Land may be filled within these flood-fringed areas provided the fill
extends 25 feet beyond the limits of any structures erected thereon.
   (3)   Any structures proposed to be located outside the floodway district,
but within 100 feet of any main drainage channel or stream (hereafter referred
to as stream) within Canton or within one (1) mile of the corporate limits,
must be approved by the Planning Board. The Planning Board or other designated
public officials shall determine on the basis of the area of the watershed and
the probable runoff, the openings needed for the stream, or how close a
structure may be built to the stream, in order to assure adequate space for the
flow of flood water. However, no building shall be permitted within 10 feet of
the top of the bank of the stream.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4078 Gasoline service or filling stations.
   The following regulations shall apply to all gasoline service or filling
stations:
   (1)   All buildings shall be located at least 40 feet from any street right-
of-way line.
   (2)   Gasoline pumps and other appliances shall be located at least 12 feet
from any street right-of-way line.
   (3)   All service, storage or similar activities shall be conducted entirely
on the premises.
   (4)   All major repair work if any, shall be conducted within a completely
enclosed building.
   (5)   Open storage of wrecked or inoperable cars, discarded tires, auto
parts or similar material shall not be permitted.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4079 Signs, billboards and other advertising structures.
   These conditions are established as a reasonable and impartial method of
regulation of advertising structures in order to insure light, air, and open
space, to reduce hazards at intersections, and to protect property values of
the entire community. The regulations for signs, billboards and other
advertising structures are enumerated below.
   (a)   In any zoning district the following general regulations shall apply:
   (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained where by reason of its
position, wording, illumination, size, shape or color it may obstruct, impair,
obscure, interfere with the view of, or be confused with, any authorized
traffic control sign, signal or device.
   (2)   No sign having flashing, intermittent or animated illumination shall
be permitted within 300 feet of property in any residence district unless the
sign is not visible from the property.
   (3)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of property in
any residence district unless the illumination of the sign is so designed that
it does not shine or reflect light onto the property.
   (4)   No ground sign shall be erected to exceed 30 feet above the ground
level or 25 feet in length. The bottom coping of every ground sign shall be at
least three (3) feet above the ground or street level.
   (5)   Outdoor advertising structures shall be erected or placed in
conformity with the side, front, and rear yard requirements of the district in
which located. However, no sign shall be erected or placed closer than within
100 feet of any residence district.
   (6)   Signs erected and overhanging any sidewalk must be placed at least
nine (9) feet above the sidewalk and may extend over the sidewalk a distance
equal to two-thirds (2/3) the width of the sidewalk, but in no case exceeding
10 feet.
   (7)   Professional signs and signs for home occupations shall not exceed
three (3) square feet in area.
   (8)   No new off-premises outdoor advertising (billboards) signs shall be
allowed within the corporate limits of the extraterratorial jurisdiction (ETJ)
of the town. This provision shall be effective in every zoning district.
   (b)   Off-premises church, lodge, club, or civic or fraternal organization
signs.
   (1)   All such signs shall be approved by the Town and placed only on
bulletin boards erected by the Town and located along major highway entrances
to the corporate limits.
   (2)   To obtain said approval, application shall be made to the
Administrator. Upon receipt of the application the Administrator shall forward
all information pertaining to the application to the Canton Beautification
Commission for review and recommendation. The Beautification Commission shall
review and make its recommendations at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
Failure to make a recommendation shall be deemed approval.
   (3)   Approval shall entitle the applicant to have a sign placed on any one
or all the bulletin boards erected by the Town. The cost of making the signs
shall be borne by the applicant.
(Ord. of 7/10/84; As Amended by Ord. of 9/14/04; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4080 Temporary mobile home.
   A temporary permit may be issued for placement of a mobile home on a lot
containing an existing dwelling unit. The mobile home for residential purposes,
must meet all dimensional requirements and the permit is valid for six (6)
months at which time it may be reissued by the Administrator.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4081 Street right-of-way.
   Street and highway rights-of-way shall not be determined as a part of a lot
or any required yard or open space.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4082 Side yard setback for dwellings.
   Where a side yard abuts a street, the setback requirements for the side yard
shall be the same as the front yard setback requirements for abutting property
on the side streets.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4083 through 9-4090 reserved.
ARTICLE H
Administration, Enforcement and Penalties
Section 9-4091 Intent.
   (a)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions arising in
connection with the enforcement or the interpretation of this chapter shall be
first presented to the administrative officer and that such questions shall be
presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from the administrative
officer and that from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall
be taken to the courts as provided by law.
   (b)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the duties of the Board
shall not include hearing and passing on disputed questions which might arise
in connection with the enforcement or interpretations of this chapter as the
procedures for determining such questions shall be stated in this chapter. The
duties of the Board of Aldermen in connection with this chapter shall be only
the duty of holding a public hearing and voting upon any proposed amendment or
repeal of this chapter as provided by law in accordance with the procedures
outlined in Article J contained herein.
   (c)   The Planning Board shall act as authorized as in such capacity as
outlined in Chapter 7, Article B of Division II of the Code of General
Ordinances of Town of Canton, NC.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4092 Administrator.
   (a)   The Administrator is hereby authorized, and it shall be his duty to
make determinations, enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Conflict of interest. No staff member, including the Administrator,
shall make a final decision on an administrative decision required by this
chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant
or other person subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff
member has a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be
assigned to the supervisor of the Administrator.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4093 Development approval required.
   An approval, which may be in the form of a permit, for all proposed
development must be obtained prior to the initiation of any work. “Development”
is defined as the construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure;
the excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land; the
subdivision of land as defined in G.S. 160D-802; or the initiation or
substantial change in the use of land or the intensity of use of land.
(Ord. of 3/27/79; As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4094 Application for development approval.
   (a)   Applications required under this article shall be submitted on forms
and in such numbers as required by the Town. Applications for development
approvals may be made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or
contract to purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the landowner.
   (b) Each application to the Administrator for a building permit shall be
accompanied by plot plans in duplicate showing:
   (1)   The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
   (2)   The size of the building to be erected;
   (3)   The location of the building on the lot;
   (4)   The location of existing structures on the lot, if any;
   (5)   The number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate;
   (6)   The approximate setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots;
   (7)   Such other information as may be essential for determining whether the
provisions of this chapter are being observed; and
   (8)   The proposed use of land.
   (c)   The Town may issue development approvals in print or electronic form.
Any development approval issued exclusively in electronic form shall be
protected from further editing once issued.
   (d)   Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits,
burdens, and obligations created by development approvals made pursuant to this
article attach to and run with the land.
   (e)   Any building permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
authorized by it shall have been commenced within six (6) months of its date of
issue or if the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of
one (1) year. A record of building permits shall be kept on file in the office
of the Administrator.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4095 Certificate of occupancy required.
   (a)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Administrator is required in
advance of:
   (1)   Occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved;
   (2)   A change of use of any building or land; and
   (3)   In addition, a certificate of occupancy shall be required for each
monitoring use created by the passage of, and subsequent amendments to, this
chapter. The owner of such nonconforming use shall obtain a certificate of
occupancy within 30 days of the date of the passage or amendments.
   (b)   A certificate of occupancy, either for the whole or a part of a
building shall be applied for coincident with the application for a building
permit and shall be issued within 10 days after the erection or structural
alterations of such building, or part, shall have been completed in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. A certificate of occupancy shall not be
issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable
provisions of this chapter. If the certificate of occupancy is denied, the
Administrator shall state in writing the reasons for refusal, and the applicant
shall be notified of the refusal. A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file in the office of the Administrator, and copies shall be furnished, on
request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
or land involved.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4096 Determinations.
   Within 14 days after a decision on a determination is made, a copy of the
decision shall be provided to the property owner or party seeking
determination, if different from the owner, via written notice by personal
delivery, electronic mail, or first-class delivery. A copy of the decision
shall also be filed with the Administrator, where it shall be available for
public inspection during regular office hours.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4097 Administrative modifications.
   Occasionally, unanticipated circumstances require changes to approved
development plans and permits including developer agreements and site-specific
vesting plans. In accordance with G.S. § 160D-403(d) the Town of Canton allows
for minor modifications to be administratively approved; however, all major
modifications require the same procedures to be followed as were completed for
the original approval. This administrative flexibility reduces the need for a
full approval process to accommodate a limited change to the plans for a
project.
   (a)   Major modifications. The following are considered major modifications
and shall not be approved administratively. These changes must follow the same
process as the original approval.
   (1)   Any change in land use.
   (2)   Any change in density.
   (3)   When there is introduction of a new vehicular access point to an
existing street, road or thoroughfare not previously designated for access.
   (4)   When the total floor area of a commercial or industrial classification
is increased more than ten percent (10%) beyond the total floor area last
approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (5)   A change in the type of proposed dwelling unit (e.g. SF detached to
townhouse).
   (6)   When the number of existing trees to be preserved is decreased more
than ten percent (10%) beyond the number of trees shown on the approved plans.
   (7)   Any change that would increase traffic beyond the levels projected in
the approved Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA).
   (8)   Any increase the stormwater impact beyond what was identified in the
approved stormwater analysis for the project.
   (9)   Any change which alters the basic development concept of the approval.
   (10)   Any net reduction in the area of a buffer or a reduction in width of
more than twenty-five (25%) of the approved width.
   (11)   For developer agreements, any change in deadlines or completion dates
in excess of three (3) months.
   (12)   Any minor modification beyond the permitted number of modifications
for a specific approval.
   (b)   Minor modifications. The Administrator is authorized to review and
approve administratively a minor modification to an approved special use
permit, conditional zoning, major subdivision, site plan, or vesting plan,
subject to the following limitations.
   (1)   General limitations. The minor modification shall meet the following:
   a.   Does not involve a change in the uses permitted or the density of
overall development permitted.
   b.   Does not increase the impacts generated by the development on traffic,
stormwater runoff, or similar impacts beyond what was projected for the
original development approval; and
   c.   In compliance all other ordinance requirements.
   d.   Limited to two (2) modifications per development approval for the life
of the project.
   (2)   Site design. Site design minor modifications are limited adjustments
to the terms or design of an approved development plan or plat, including a
site plan attached as a condition to a conditional zoning or special use
permit. In addition to the general limitations for minor modifications, a site
design minor modification must:
   a.   Comply with underlying zoning standards and other applicable conditions
of the approval;
   b.   Be limited to a minor change such as, without limitation, a minor
adjustment to road configuration or internal circulation, a minor adjustment to
building or internal driveway location, or a minor adjustment to utility
alignment.
   (3)   Dimensional standards. Dimensional standard minor modifications are
adjustments to the dimensional standards of the zoning ordinance. Dimensional
standards may only be modified upon a finding by the Administrator, based on
evidence from the permit holder, that the modification is needed to address a
site characteristic or technical design consideration not known at the time of
initial approval. In addition to the general limitations for minor
modifications, dimensional standard minor modifications are limited to:
   a.   An adjustment to parking requirements up to the greater of five (5)
spaces or ten (10) percent.
   b.   An adjustment to setback requirements up to greater of five (5) feet or
twenty five (25) percent of the standard setback.
   c.   An adjustment to landscape standards up to twenty (20) percent of
required landscaping.
   (c)   Appeals and variances. A decision on minor modification may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment as an administrative determination. An
application for a minor modification does not preclude an applicant from
seeking a variance from the Board of Adjustment.
   (d)   Individual parcels within a conditional zoning district. For a
conditional zoning district applicable to multiple parcels, the owners of
individual parcels may apply for minor modification or major amendment so long
as the change would not result in other properties failing to meet the terms of
the conditions. Any approved changes shall only be applicable to those
properties whose owners petitioned for the change.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4098 Violations and remedies.
   (a)   Complaints. When a violation of this article occurs, or is alleged to
have occurred, any person may file a written or verbal complaint with the
Administrator. Such complaint shall state fully the cause and basis thereof and
shall be filed with the Administrator, or his authorized agent. An
investigation should be made within ten (10) days. Actions as provided in these
regulations shall be taken.
   (b)   Inspections. The Administrator is authorized to enter any premises
within the jurisdiction of the local government at all reasonable hours for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action upon presentation of proper
credentials, provided the appropriate consent has been given for inspection of
areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection warrant has been
secured.
   (c)   Violations. When staff determines work or activity has been undertaken
in violation of a development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter or
other local development regulation or any state law delegated to the Town for
enforcement purposes in lieu of the state, or in violation of the terms of a
development approval, a written notice of violation may be issued.
   (1)   The notice of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the landowner of the property involved, if the
landowner is not the holder of the development approval, by personal delivery,
electronic delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by similar means
to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the work or activity.
The notice of violation may be posted on the property.
   (2)   The notice shall include a description of the violation and its
location, the measures necessary to correct it, the possibility of civil
penalties and judicial enforcement action and notice of right to appeal. The
notice shall also state the time allowed, if any, to correct the violation,
which time may vary depending on the nature of the violation and knowledge of
the violator.
   (3)   The person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the
local government that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall be
deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud. Except as provided by G.S. § 160D-
1123 or G.S. § 160D-1206 or otherwise provided by law, a notice of violation
may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405.
   (d)   Remedies. In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or land is used in
violation of this chapter, the Administrator, or any other appropriate Town
authority, or any person who would be damaged by the violation, in addition to
other remedies, may institute an action for injunction, mandamus or other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the violation.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4099 Revocation of development approvals.
   Development approvals may be revoked by the Town by notifying the owner in
writing stating the reason for the revocation. The Town shall follow the same
development review and approval process required for issuance of the
development approval, including any required notice or hearing, in the review
and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development approvals shall be
revoked for any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of any
applicable development regulation or any state law delegated to the Town for
enforcement purposes in lieu of the state; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any development approval
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may also be
revoked. The revocation of a development approval by a staff member may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4110 reserved.
ARTICLE I
Zoning Board of Adjustment
Section 9-4111 Establishment of Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (a)   A Zoning Board of Adjustment is hereby established.
   (1)   Said board shall consist of nine (9) members: three members shall be
appointed by the Haywood County Board of Commissioners, one of which shall be a
resident of that portion of the Pigeon River Watershed that lies within the
town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction, and one of which shall be a resident of
the Haywood County portion of the Rough Creek extraterritorial jurisdiction
area, and one member shall be appointed by the Buncombe County Board of
Commissioners and shall be a resident of the Buncombe County portion of the
Rough Creek extraterritorial jurisdiction and one member shall be a resident of
that portion of the Asheville Highway ETJ that lies within the town’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction. To determine proportional representation for ETJ
representation, population estimates shall be updated no less frequently than
after each decennial census.
   (2)   However, in the event either County Board of Commissioners is unable
to find a resident of its portion of the extraterritorial jurisdiction who is
willing to serve on the Board of Adjustment, it shall appoint any resident of
the respective county to serve on the Board of Adjustment. All appointments to
the board shall be for three (3) year terms. Any vacancy in membership shall be
filled for the unexpired term by the appropriate governing board. Members can
succeed themselves.
   (3)   Members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for any
expenses incurred while representing the Board.
   (4)   The respective governing boards shall each appoint one (1) alternate
member who shall meet the same residence requirements as regular members.
Alternate members shall be appointed for the same term, at the same time, and
in the same manner as regular members. Each alternate member while attending
any regular or special meeting of the Board and serving in the absence of a
regular member of the same jurisdiction, shall have and may exercise all the
powers and duties of a regular member.
   (5) The members of the Board of Adjustment who were serving at the time of
adoption of the amendment calling for extraterritorial jurisdiction
representation shall serve the balance of the term to which said member was
appointed.
(Amended by Ord. of 9/15/87; Amended by Ord. of 9/14/93; Amended by Ord. of 7/
22/97; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4112 Jurisdiction and decisions of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (a)   The four (4) members appointed to the Board of Adjustment by the
respective Board of County Commissioners as representatives of the
extraterritorial jurisdiction area outside the Town of Canton shall be
residents of such area and citizens of the respective county. Such members
shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties with other members of the Board
in all matters pertaining to the regulation of the extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
   (b)   On matters pertaining to the extra-territorial jurisdiction, the
concurring vote of eight members of the Board shall be necessary to grant a
variance under the provisions of this chapter, but simple majority is necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant concerning any matter
which it is required to pass under the zoning ordinance.
   (c)   On all matters pertaining to the incorporated area of the Town of
Canton, only those Board members representing the Town of Canton shall vote.
The concurring vote of four (4) members of Board from the Town of Canton shall
be necessary to grant a variance from the provisions of this chapter. However,
a simple majority is needed to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant
concerning any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter. On
all appeals, applications, and other matters brought before the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, said Board shall inform, in writing, all parties involved of its
decisions and the reasons therefor. (Amended by Ord. of 9/15/85; Amended by
Ord. of 9/14/93; Amended by Ord. of 7/22/97; Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4113 Proceedings of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (a)   All members appointed to the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall, before
entering their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office. The Board of
Adjustment shall elect a chairman and vice- chairman from its members who shall
serve for one (1) year or until re-elected, or until their successors are
elected. The Board shall appoint a secretary, who may be a municipal officer,
an employee of the Town, a member of the Planning Board, or a member of the
Board of Adjustment. The Board shall adopt rules and bylaws in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and of Article 6, Chapter 160D of the General
Statutes of North Carolina. Meetings and, when necessary, evidentiary hearings,
of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times
as the Board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence the vice-chairman,
is authorized to administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by
subpoena. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Zoning
Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of board proceedings.
   (b)   Conflict of interest. A member of the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
not participate in or vote on any matter in a manner that would violate
affected persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker.
Impermissible violations of due process include, but are not limited to, a
member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not
susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close familial,
business, or other relationship with an affected person, or a financial
interest in the outcome of the matter.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4114 Powers and duties of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (a)   Appeals of administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it
is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (1)   An appeal from the decision of the Administrator may be taken to the
Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved or affected by such decision. The
appeal shall be taken within 30 days from receipt of written notice by filing
with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice pursuant to G.S. §
160D-403(b) given by first class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States
Postal Service.
   (2)   The Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (3)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
unless the official who made the decision certifies to the Board after notice
of appeal has been filed, that because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a
stay would cause imminent peril to life or property; or because the violation
is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of
the ordinance. In that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except
by a restraining order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement
proceedings are not stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request
for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and the Board shall meet to hear the
appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a development approval or otherwise
affirming that a proposed use of property is consistent with the development
regulation shall not stay the further review of an application for development
approvals to use such property; in these situations the appellant or local
government may request and the Board may grant a stay of a final decision of
development approval applications, including building permits affected by the
issue appealed.
   (b)   Special use permits. To hear and decide special use permits to the
terms of this chapter upon which the Board of Adjustment is required to pass
under this chapter. To decide such questions as are involved in determining
whether a special use permit should be granted. To grant special use permits
with such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter, or
to deny special use permits when not in harmony with the intent of this
chapter. A special use permit may be granted by the Board of Adjustment only
after a hearing:
   (1)   The Board of Adjustment is empowered to grant the special use permit
and that the granting of the special use permit will not adversely affect the
public interest.
   (2)   Before any special use permit shall be issued, the Board shall make
written findings certifying compliance with all specific rules governing the
individual development and that satisfactory provision and arrangement has been
made concerning the following wherever applicable:
   a.   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structure with particular
reference to automotive and pedestrian safety, convenience, traffic flow and
control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe.
   b.   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items in a.
and b. above.
   c.   Off-street parking and loading areas where required with particular
attention to the items in a. above and to the economic, noise, glare or odor
effects of the special use on adjoining properties and generally in the
district.
   d.   Utilities, with reference to location, availability and compatibility.
   e.   Screening and buffering, with reference to type, dimensions, and
character.
   f.   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting, with reference to glare,
traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with properties
in the district.
   g.   Required yards and other open spaces.
   h.   General compatibility with adjacent property and other property in the
district.
   (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall request the Canton Planning Board to
review and make recommendations concerning the special use permit relative to
the following considerations:
   a.   Relation of the special use to applicable elements of the planning
program.
   b.   Appearance of the special use relative to location, structure and
design.
   (4)   Reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards may be imposed
upon these permits. The Zoning Board of Adjustment must not impose conditions
on special use permits that the local government does not otherwise have
statutory authority to impose. Further, the Board shall obtain the landowner's
and/or applicant's written consent to the conditions related to any special use
permit granted under these regulations.
   (5)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may provide that defined minor
modifications to special use permits, that do not involve a change in uses
permitted or the density of overall development permitted, may be reviewed and
approved administratively (Section
9-4097(b)). Any other modification or revocation of a special use permit shall
follow the same process for approval as is applicable to the approval of a
special use permit. Any modifications approved shall only be applicable to
those properties whose applicants/landowners provide written consent for the
modification.
   (c)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances
from the terms of the chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
the chapter will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship; so that the spirit of the chapter shall be observed,
public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
   (1)   The existence of a nonconforming use of neighboring land, building, or
structures in the same district or of permitted or nonconforming uses in other
districts shall not constitute a reason for the requested variance. The fact
that property may be utilized more profitably will not be considered adequate
to justify the Board in granting a variance.
   (2)   The variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary
hardship upon a finding by the Board of Adjustment that all of the following
conditions exist:
   a.   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the
particular place or property in question because of its size, shape, or
topography that are not applicable to other lands or structures in the same
district.
   b.   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the applicant any
special privileges that are denied to other residents of the district in which
the property is located.
   c.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of the
district in which the property is located.
   d.   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and intent
of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the general
welfare.
   e.   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of the
applicant or the property owner.
   f.   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make possible
the legal use of the land, building, or structure.
   g.   The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, building, or
structure which is not permitted by right or by special use permit in the
district involved.
   (3)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
   (4)   Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that
the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4115 Quasi-judicial hearings.
   For all appeals, variances, and special use permits, quasi-judicial
(evidentiary) procedures of G.S. § 160D-406 must be followed:
   (a)   Notice of hearing.
   (1)   Written notice of the hearing shall be given by being placed in the
mail, no later than ten (10) days before the hearing but no more than twenty-
five (25) days prior to the hearing, to the following:
   a.   The appellant or applicant whose application, appeal, or request is the
subject of the hearing.
   b.   The owner of the property, if the owner did not initiate the hearing;
   c.   The owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is
the subject of the hearing, as are listed for taxation of real property; and
   d.   Any other person who makes a written request for the notice by mailing
to the persons a written notice or is otherwise entitled to receive notice by
this chapter.
   (2)   No later than ten (10) days before the hearing but no more than
twenty-five (25) days prior to the hearing, the Town shall also prominently
post a notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or
on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
   (b)   Evidentiary hearing required.
   (1)   Before making a decision on an appeal or an application for a
variance, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hold an evidentiary hearing on
the appeal. The Board shall also conduct an evidentiary hearing on a special
use permit, or petition from the Administrator to revoke a special use permit.
This hearing is to gather competent, material, and substantial evidence to
establish the facts of the case.
   (2)   The Administrator or staff to the Board shall transmit to the Board
all applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the matter being
considered. The administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing
record.
   (3)   The hearing shall be open to the public. The applicant, the Town, and
any person who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S. § 160D-
1402(c) shall have the right to participate as a party at the evidentiary
hearing. Other witnesses may present competent, material, and substantial
evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the Board. All testimony must be
given under oath.
   (4)   The official who made the decision, or the person currently occupying
that position if the decision-maker is no longer employed by the Town, shall be
present at the evidentiary hearing as a witness.
   (5)   The Board of Adjustment may place reasonable and equitable limitations
on the presentation of evidence and arguments and the cross-examination of
witnesses so that the matter at issue may be heard and decided without undue
delay.
   (6)   Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary issues, including,
but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the standing of a party, may
be made to the Board. The Board chair shall rule on any objections, and the
chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board. These rulings are also
subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Objections based on
jurisdictional issues may be raised for the first time on judicial review.
   (7)   The Board may continue the hearing until a subsequent meeting to take
additional information. No further notice of a continued hearing need be
published unless a period of six weeks or more elapses between hearing dates.
   (8)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari.
   (9)   Decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. When hearing an appeal, the Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent,
material, and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision
shall be reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested
facts and their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the
Board and signed by the chair or other duly authorized member of the Board. A
quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the
clerk to the Board or such other office or official as the development
regulation specifies. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to
the applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person
required to provide notice shall certify to the local government that proper
notice has been made, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4116 Appeals from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board, any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
Town of Canton, may within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board, but not thereafter, present to a court of competent
jurisdiction a petition duly verified, setting forth that such decision is
illegal, in whole or in part, specifying that ground of illegality, whereupon
the decision of the Board shall be subject to review by certiorari as provided
by law.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4117 Fees for variances, appeals and special use permits.
   A fee of $15 shall be paid to the Town for an application for a variance,
exception or appeal to cover the necessary administrative costs and
advertising.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4118 through 9-4130 reserved.
ARTICLE J
Amendments
Section 9-4131 Board of Aldermen.
   (a)   The Board of Aldermen is responsible for the adoption, amendment, or
repeal of a regulation; adoption and amendments of a comprehensive plan; and
amendments to the zoning map as a legislative process in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 6.
   (b)   Conflict of interest. Members of the Board of Aldermen shall not vote
on any advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation
adopted pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being
considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily
identifiable financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member shall
not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a
rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom
the member has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (c)   The Board of Aldermen shall keep minutes of Board proceedings.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4132 Procedures for adopting, amending or repealing development
regulations.
   (a)   This chapter, including the official zoning map, may be amended from
time to time at the request of the Board of Alderman, Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment or any property owner or citizen. However, no amendment to zoning
regulations or a zoning map that down-zones property shall be initiated nor is
it enforceable without the written consent of all property owners whose
property is the subject of the down-zoning amendment, unless the down-zoning
amendment is initiated by the Town. For purposes of this section "down-zoning"
means a zoning ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the following
ways:
   (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage.
   (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
   (b)   All proposed amendments shall be submitted to the Town of Canton
Planning Board for review and recommendation.
   (1)   When conducting a review of proposed zoning text or map amendments
pursuant to this section, the planning board shall advise and comment on
whether the proposed action is consistent with any comprehensive plan that has
been adopted and any other officially adopted plan that is applicable. The
Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the Board of Aldermen
that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the
Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a proposed amendment
is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not considered in the action
taken. If the amendment is adopted and the action was deemed inconsistent with
the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect of also amending
any future land use map in the approved plan and no additional request or
application for a plan amendment shall be required.
   (e)   When adopting or rejecting any petition for a zoning text or map
amendment, a brief statement explaining the reasonableness of the proposed
rezoning shall be approved by Board of Aldermen. The statement of
reasonableness may consider, among other factors: (i) the size, physical
conditions, and other attributes of any area proposed to be rezoned; (ii) the
benefits and detriments to the actual and permissible development and the
development permissible under the proposed amendment; (iii) why the action
taken is in the public interest; and (iv) any changed conditions warranting the
amendment. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning"
under G.S. § 160-602(b), Board of Aldermen statement on reasonableness may
address the overall rezoning.
   (f)   The Board of Aldermen must permit adoption of a legislative decision
for development regulation on first reading by simple majority. Development
regulations shall be adopted by ordinance. Any development regulation other
than a zoning regulation that is proposed to be adopted pursuant to this
chapter may be referred to the Planning Board for review and comment. Any other
action proposed to be taken pursuant to this chapter may be referred to the
Planning Board for review and comment.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Cross Reference: Zoning amendments table, see Appendix II.
Section 9-4133 Fees for amendments.
A fee of $15 shall be paid to the Town for each application for an amendment to
cover the cost of advertising and other administrative expenses involved.
(As Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
ARTICLE K
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 9-4140 Vested rights.
   (a)   Vested rights are the rights of the applicant to undertake and
complete the development and use of property under the terms and conditions of
an approval secured as specified in G.S. § 160D-108. Amendments in land
development regulations are not applicable or enforceable without the written
consent of the owner with regard to the following:
   (1)   Buildings or uses of buildings or land for which a development permit
application has been submitted and subsequently issued in accordance with G.S.
§ 143-755.
   (2)   Subdivisions of land for which a development permit application
authorizing the subdivision has been submitted and subsequently issued in
accordance with G.S. § 143-755.
   (3)   A site-specific vesting plan pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.1, which
consists of a plan submitted to the Town in which the applicant requests
vesting, such as subdivision plat, site plan, conditional zoning master plan,
or special use permit, describing with reasonable certainty on the plan the
type and intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of property:
   a.   A vested right for a site-specific vesting plan remains vested for a
period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or
modifications to a site-specific vesting plan unless expressly provided by the
Town.
   b.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), the Town may provide
for rights to be vested for a period exceeding two years but not exceeding five
years where warranted in light of all relevant circumstances, including, but
not limited to the size and phasing of development, the level of investment,
the need for the development, economic cycles, and market conditions or other
considerations. These determinations are in the sound discretion of the Town of
Canton and shall be made following the process specified for the particular
form of a site-specific vesting plan involved in accordance with G.S. 160D-
108.1.
   (4)   A multi-phased development is a development containing over twenty-
five (25) acres that is both submitted for a development approval to occur in
more than one phase and subject to a master development plan with committed
elements showing the type and intensity of each phase.
   a.   A multi-phased development is vested for the entire development with
the land development regulations then in place at the time a site plan approval
is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development.
   b.   A right which has been vested as provided for herein remains vested for
a period of seven years from the time a site plan approval is granted for the
initial phase of the multi-phased development.
   (5)   A vested right established by the terms of a development agreement
authorized by Article 10 of G.S. Ch. 160D.
   (b)   Duration of vesting. Upon issuance of a development permit, the
statutory for a development project is effective upon filing of the application
in accordance with G.S. § 143-755, for so long as the permit remains valid
pursuant to law. Unless otherwise specified by this section or other statute,
local development permits expire one year after issuance unless work authorized
by the permit has substantially commenced.
   (c)   Process to claim vested right. A person claiming a statutory or common
law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim to the
Administrator or other officer designated by this chapter, who shall make an
initial determination as to the existence of the vested right. The decision of
the Administrator may be appealed under G.S. § 160D-405.
   (d)   The vested rights granted by this section run with the land except for
the use of land for outdoor advertising governed by G.S. § 136-136.1 and G.S. §
136-131.2 in which case the rights granted by this section run with the owner
of the permit issued by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
   (e)   Exceptions to vested rights are in accordance with those outlined in
G.S. § 160D-108.1(f).
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4141 Permit choice.
   If an applicant submits an application for any type of development and a
rule or ordinance is amended, including an amendment to any applicable land
development regulation, between the time the development application was
submitted and a decision is made, the development applicant may choose which
adopted version of the rule or ordinance will apply to the development and use
of the building, structure, or land indicated on the application.
   (a)   lf the applicant chooses the version of the rule or ordinance
applicable at the time of the application, the applicant shall not be required
to await the outcome of the amendment to the rule, map, or ordinance prior to
acting on the development permit.
   (b)   If an applicable rule or ordinance is amended after the development
permit is wrongfully denied, or after an illegal condition is imposed as
determined in a proceeding challenging the permit denial or the condition
imposed, the development permit applicant may choose which adopted version of
the rule or ordinance will apply to the permit and use of the building,
structure, or land
indicated on the permit application. Provided, however, any provision of the
development permit applicant's chosen version of the rule or ordinance that is
determined to be illegal for any reason shall not be enforced upon the
applicant without the written consent of the applicant.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4142 Conflict with other regulations.
   (a)    Whenever the regulations of this chapter require a greater width or
size of yards, courts, or other open space; or require a lower height of
buildings or lesser number of stories; or require a greater percentage of lot
to be left unoccupied: or impose other more restrictive standards than are
required in or under any other statutes or agreements, the regulations and
requirements of this chapter shall govern.
   (b)   Whenever the provisions of any other statute or agreement require more
restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of the
statute or agreement shall govern.
(Amended by Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4143 Re-enactment and repeal of existing Zoning Ordinance.
   This chapter in part carries forward by reenactment some of the provisions
of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Canton (adopted by the Board of Aldermen
on July 12, 1966, as amended), and it is not the intention to repeal but rather
to reenact and continue in force the existing provisions so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued hereunder are preserved and may be enforced. All
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Canton enacted in 1966, as
amended, which are not reenacted herein are hereby repealed. All suits at law
or in equity and/or all prosecutions resulting from the violation of any zoning
ordinance heretofore in effect, which are not pending in any of the courts of
this State or of the United States, shall not be abated or abandoned by reason
of the adoption of this chapter, but shall be prosecuted to their finality the
same as if this chapter had not been adopted. Any and all violations of the
existing zoning ordinance, prosecutions for which have not yet been instituted,
may be hereafter filed and prosecuted; and nothing in this chapter shall be so
construed as to abandon, abate or dismiss any litigation or prosecution now
pending, and/or which may heretofore have been instituted or prosecuted.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4144 Validity.
   Should any section or provisions of this chapter be declared by the courts
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4145 Penalty.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished for each offense by a fine
not exceed $30 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day the violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
Section 9-4146 Effective date.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption
by the Board of Aldermen of the Town of Canton, North Carolina.
(Ord. of 6/24/21)
CHAPTER 5
Flood Damage Prevention
ARTICLE A Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
Section
9-5001   Statutory authorization
Section
9-5002   Findings of fact
Section
9-5003   Statement of purpose
Section
9-5004   Objectives
Sections 9-5005 through 9-5014 are reserved
Article B Definitions
Section
9-5015   Definitions
Sections 9-5016 through 9-5024 are reserved
Article C General Provisions
Section
9-5025   Lands to which this chapter applies
Section
9-5026   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
Section
9-5027   Establishment of floodplain development permit
Section
9-5028   Compliance
Section
9-5029   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Section
9-5030   Interpretation
Section
9-5031   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Section
9-5032   Penalties for violation
Sections 9-5033 through 9-5044 are reserved
Article D Administration
Section
9-5045   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
Section
9-5046   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
Section
9-5047   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator
Section
9-5048   Administrative and corrective procedures
Section
9-5049   Variance procedures
Sections 9-5050 through 9-5059 are reserved
Article E Provision for Flood Hazard Reduction
Section
9-5060   General standards
Section
9-5061   Specific standards
Section
9-5062   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
Section
9-5063   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas
Section
9-5064   Floodways and non- encroachment areas
Section
9-5065   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
Sections 9-5066 through 9-5074 are reserved
Article F Legal Status Provisions
Section
9-5075   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention chapter
Section
9-5076   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
ARTICLE A
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
Section 9-5001 Statutory authorization.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in G.S. Chapter 143,
Article 21, Part 6; G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Parts 3, 5 and 8; and
Chapter 160A, Article 8, delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Aldermen of the Town
of Canton, North Carolina, does ordain as follows: (Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended
by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5002 Findings of fact.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of Canton
are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5003 Statement of purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses mat are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5004 Objectives.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (1)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and gas
mains, electric, telephone', cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges) that
are located in flood prone areas;
   (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a Special
Flood Hazard Area.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Sections 9-5005 through 9-5014 are reserved.
ARTICLE B
Definitions
Section 9-5015 Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
   Accessory Structure (Appurtenant Structure). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   Addition (to an existing building). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   Appeal. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   Area of Shallow Flooding. A designated Zone AO on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and mdetenninate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   Area of Special Flood Hazard. See "Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)".
   Base Flood. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   Base Flood Elevation (BFE).  A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a "Special Flood Hazard Area", it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
"Freeboard", establishes the "Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation".
   Basement. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   Building. See "Structure".
   Chemical Storage Facility. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   Development. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   Disposal. As defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   Elevated Building. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   Encroachment. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   Existing Manufactured Home Park or Manufactured Home Subdivision. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   Flood or Flooding. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the Special Flood
Hazard Areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the Special
Flood Hazard Areas have been defined as Zone A.
   Flood Insurance. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard
Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   Flood Prone Area.  See "Floodplain"
   Flood Zone. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   Floodplain. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   Floodplain Administrator. Is the individual appointed to administer and
enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   Floodplain Development Permit. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   Floodplain Management. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   Floodplain Management Regulations. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   Floodproofing. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   Freeboard. The height added to the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the
freeboard establishes the "Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation".
   Functionally Dependent Facility. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   Hazardous Waste Management Facility. As defined in G.S. 130A-9, a facility
for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or
disposal of hazardous waste.
   Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   Historic Structure. Any structure that is:
   (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
   (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
   (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a "Certified Local Government (CLG) Program"; or
   (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a historic
district designated by a community with a "Certified Local Government (CLG)
Program".
   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US Department
of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in
1980.
   Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   Lowest Floor. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   Manufactured Home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Market Value. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   Mean Sea Level. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which Base Flood
Elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   New Construction. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   Non-Encroachment Area. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   Post-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   Pre-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   Principally Above Ground. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   Public Safety and/or Nuisance. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   Recreational Vehicle (RV). A vehicle, which is:
   (a)   Built on a single chassis;
   (b)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
   (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   Reference Level.  The top of the lowest floor for structures within Special
Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone Al-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation. The "Base Flood Elevation" plus the
"Freeboard". In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plu sane foot of
freeboard. In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   Remedy a Violation. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   Riverine. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   Salvage Yard. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   Solid Waste Disposal Facility. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35).
   Solid Waste Disposal Site. As defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(36), any place at
which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any
other method.
   Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in Section
9-5026 of this chapter.
   Start of Construction. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   Structure. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   Substantial Damage. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
improvement".
   Substantial Improvement. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
   (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   Variance. Is a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   Violation. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Sections
9-5045 through
9-5049 and
9-5060 through 9-5065 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   Water Surface Elevation (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   Watercourse. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Sections 9-5016 through 9-5024 are reserved.
ARTICLE C
General Provisions
Section 9-5025 Lands to which this chapter applies.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJs), of the Town of
Canton and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body
agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5026 Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas.
   (a)   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina
and FEMA in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), for Haywood County dated April 8, 2011, which are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (b)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date: Haywood County Unincorporated Area,
dated August 7, 1987. The Town of Canton, dated February 2, 1977.
   (c)   Special Flood Hazard Areas also include those identified by Haywood
County in its Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, dated July 7, 1987, which with
accompanying data are adopted by reference and declared to be part of this
chapter. In addition, upon annexation to the Town of Canton or inclusion in the
Extra-Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ), the Special Flood Hazard Areas identified
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and/or produced under the
Cooperating Technical State agreement between the State of North Carolina and
FEMA as stated above, for the Unincorporated Areas of Haywood Count, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this ordinance.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5027 Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit.
   A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section
9-5026.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5028 Compliance.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5029 Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5030 Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (a)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (b)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (c)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5031 Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the Town of Canton or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28)
Section 9-5032 Penalties for violation.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Town of Canton from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Sections 9-5033 through 9-5044 are reserved.
ARTICLE D
Administration
Section 9-5045 Designation of Floodplain Administrator.
   The Town Manager or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5046 Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
   (a)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
   (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
   a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
   b.   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on the FIRM
or other flood map as determined in Section
9-5026, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
   c.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
9-5026;
   d.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in Section
9-5026;
   e.   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in Section
9-5026; Section
9-5047; or Section
9-5063;
   f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development; and
   (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including but not limited to:
   (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
   (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-residential
structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be floodproofed; and
   (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
   (3)   If floodproofmg, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) with
supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan
that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance
of floodproofing measures.
   (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met.
These details include but are not limited to:
   a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid
foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation on
columns/posts/ piers/piles/shear walls); and
   b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with Section
9-5061(4)(c) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30.
   (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
   (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
   (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or temporary
structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of Section
9-5061(6), (7) of this chapter are met.
   (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when
applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (b)   Permit requirements. The Floodplain Development Permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
   (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the floodplain
development permit.
   (2)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in Section
9-5026.
   (3)   The Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation required for the reference
level and all attendant utilities.
   (4)   The Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation required for the protection
of all public utilities.
   (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
   (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall encroach
into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable.
   (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30.
   (c)   Certification requirements.
   (1)   Elevation certificates.
   a.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to the
actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of
the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit
   b.   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required
after construction is completed and prior to Certificate of Compliance/
Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of a final as-built construction of
the elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. In some
instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected as-built
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
correction shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
   (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used to
meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and
an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
   (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30 and
the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of Section
9-5061(3)(b).
   (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of the
extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
   (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located within
Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in items (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this
subsection:
   a.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of Section
9-5061(6)(a);
   b.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of Section
9-5061(7); and
   c.   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting requirements of
Section
9-5061(8).
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5047 Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (2)   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received.
   (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of Section 9-5065 are
met.
   (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of Section
9-5046(c).
   (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of Section
9-5046(c).
   (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of Section
9-5046(c).
   (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of Section
9-5046(c) and Section
9-5061(2).
   (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where mere appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
   (11)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of Section
9-5026, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to Section
9-5063(2)(b), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (12)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions
of Section
9-5026, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (13)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this ordinance and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (14)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (15)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (16)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
   (17)   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (18)   Follow through with corrective procedures of Section
9-5048.
   (19)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
   (20)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of Section
9-5026, including any revisions . thereto including Letters of Map Change,
issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (21)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5048 Administrative and corrective procedures.
   (1)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (2)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
   (a)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
   (b)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
   (c)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (3)   Order to take corrective action.  If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   (4)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (5)   Failure to comply with order.  If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5049 Variance procedures.
   (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment as established by the Town of Canton
Board of Aldermen, hereinafter referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall hear
and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (3)   Variances may be issued for:
   (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
   (b)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the definition
as stated in Section
9-5015 of this chapter, provided provisions of Section
9-5049(9)(b), (c), and (e) have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; or
   (c)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (4)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
   (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under Section
9-5015 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
   (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   (5)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (6)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this ordinance, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage.
Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of Norm Carolina upon request.
   (9)   Conditions for variances:
   (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
   (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
   (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
   (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
   1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
   2.   A determination mat failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
   3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (10)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that
all of the following conditions are met.
   (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
   (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
   (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at
least the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
   (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
   (e)   The Town of Canton has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30
calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Sections 9-5050 through 9-5059 are reserved.
ARTICLE E
Provision for Flood Hazard Reduction
Section 9-5060 General standards.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation. These
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (8)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (9)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (10)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in Section
9-5049(10). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
Section
9-5046(3).
   (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (15)   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard Area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (16)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) shall apply.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5061 Specific standards.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in Section
9-5026, or Section
9-5063, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Section
9-5060, are required:
   (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Section
9-5015.
   (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Section
9-5015. Structures located in A, AE, AO, and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to
the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with Article 5, Section G(2). A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this
subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator as set forth in Section
9-5046(3), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (3)   Manufactured homes.
   (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation, as defined in Section
9-5015.
   (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
   (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of Section
9-5061(4).
   (d)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
   (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only be
used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
   (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to
the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation; and
   (c)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
   1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each enclosed
area subject to flooding;
   2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
   3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area must
have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
   4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade;
   5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
   6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered enclosures for
regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood openings. Masonry or
wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is considered an enclosure
and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (5)    Additions/improvements.
   (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the addition
and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to the
existing structure are:
   1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements must be
designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-conforming than
the existing structure.
   2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the addition
and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new construction.
   (b)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
   (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
   1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements only
must comply with the standards for new construction.
   2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the addition
and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new construction.
   (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
   (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed
and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
   (b)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (7)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
   (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be permitted.
Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one year;
   (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible for
the removal of the temporary structure;
   (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be removed
(i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or immediately upon
flood warning notification);
   (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
   (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (8)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the
following criteria shall be met:
   (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation (including
working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
   (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
   (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
   (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with the
provisions of Section
9-5060(l);
   (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of Section
9-5060(4): and
   (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below Regulatory Blood Protection Elevation in
conformance with the provisions of Section
9-5061(4)(c).
   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet that
satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with Section
9-5046(3).
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5062 Standards for floodplains without established base flood
elevations.
   Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in Section
9-5026, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Section
9-5060, shall apply:
   (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (2)   The BFE used in determining the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
   (a)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in Section
9-5060 and
9-5061.
   (b)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of Section
9-5061 and Section
9-5065.
   (c)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with Section
9-5026 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
   (d)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
estate, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation, as defined in Section
9-5015. All other applicable provisions of Section
9-5061.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5063 Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations
but without established floodways or non- encroachment areas.
   Along rivers and streams where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor non-
encroachment areas are identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM
or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within such areas:
   (1)   Standards of Sections
9-5060 and
9-5061; and
   (2)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5064 Floodways and non-encroachment areas.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Section
9-5026. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in Sections
9-5060 and
9-5061, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
   (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result in
any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based
on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator prior to
issuance of floodplain development permit; or
   (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
   (2)   If Section
9-5065(1) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
   (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of Section
9-5061(3); and
   (b)   The no encroachment standard of Section
9-5065F(1).
(Ord. of 5/11/93; As Amended by Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5065   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO).
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Section
9-5026, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to Sections
9-5060 and
9-5061, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one foot, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least one foot
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   (2)    on-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in subsection (1) so that the structure, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with Section
9-5046(3) and Section
9-5061(2).
   (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. of 2/28/12)
Sections 9-5066 through 9-5074 reserved.
ARTICLE F
Legal Status Provisions
Section 9-5075   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood
damage prevention ordinance.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted December 14, 1976 as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact, and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of the Town of Canton enacted on December 14, 1976, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed. The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance for Haywood County is August 7, 1987.
(Ord. of 2/28/12)
Section 9-5076   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2/28/12)
CHAPTER 6
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction boundaries
Section
9-6001   Establishment.
Section
9-6002   Establishment over area watershed water supply.
Section
9-6003   Establishment over New Clyde Highway (US 19-23).
Section 9-6001 Establishment.
   (a)   Said boundaries are delineated on the face of a map entitled,
"Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Boundary Map of the Town of Canton" which is
hereby adopted by reference and is further described as follows
   (1)   BEGINNING at a point, said point being at the intersection of the
northwest corner of parcel 8361 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8760 and the
Buncombe and Haywood County boundary; thence following the western boundary of
said parcel 8361 in a generally southerly direction 4,140 feet more or less to
a point, said point being at the intersection of said boundary with the
northwestern boundary of parcel 7519 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8669; thence
following said northwestern boundary in a southwesterly direction 840 feet more
or less to a point, said point being at the westernmost corner of said parcel
7519, said point also being at the intersection of the common boundary line of
said parcel 7519 and parcel 4889 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8669 and the
southeastern boundary of parcel 3042 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8760; thence
following said common boundary line of parcels 7519 and 4889 in a southeasterly
direction 1,920 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the
southernmost corner of said parcel 7519, said point also being the westernmost
corner of parcel 1584 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8669; thence following in a
straight line 400 feet more or less in a southeasterly direction to a point,
said point being at the northeastern corner of parcel 5162 on Haywood County
Tax Sheet 8669; thence following the eastern boundary of said parcel 5162 in a
southerly direction 720 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the
intersection of the eastern boundary of said parcel 5162 and the northern
boundary of the margin of State Road 1622; thence following in a straight line
forming a 90-degree angle to said margin boundary in a southerly direction to a
point, said point being at the intersection of said line and the southern
boundary of the margin of State Road 1622; thence following the southern
boundary of said margin in a westerly direction 400 feet more or less to a
point, said point being at the intersection of the southern boundary of said
margin and the eastern boundary of parcel 4569 on Haywood County Tax Sheet
8669; thence following the eastern boundary of said parcel 4569 in a southerly
direction 320 feet to a point, said point being at the southeastern corner of
said parcel 4569; thence following the southern boundary of said parcel 4569 in
a southwesterly direction 275 feet to a point, said point being at the
southernmost corner of said parcel 4569; thence following in a northwesterly
direction the southwestern boundary of said parcel 4569 230 feet to a point,
said point being at the intersection of said southwestern boundary and the
southern margin of State Road 1613; thence following the southern margin of
said road in a southwesterly direction 420 feet to a point, said point being at
the intersection of said margin and the southwestern boundary of parcel 7912 on
Haywood County Tax Sheet 8669; thence following the southwestern boundary of
said parcel 7912 in a southeasterly direction 1,590 feet more or less to a
point, said point being at the southernmost corner of said parcel 7912, said
point also being at the easternmost corner of parcel 4244 on Haywood County Tax
Sheet 8669; thence following in a southwesterly direction 3,440 feet more or
less the eastern boundary of the following parcels, all located on Haywood
County Tax Sheet 8669: 4244, 5833, 6190, 7902, and 9614 to a point, said point
being at the southeastern corner of said parcel 9614; thence following in a
westerly direction 45 feet more or less the southern boundary of said parcel
9614 to a point, said point being at the intersection of the southern boundary
of said parcel 9614 and the northeast corner of parcel 6310 on Haywood County
Tax Sheet 8669; thence following the eastern boundary of said parcel 6310 in a
southerly and southwesterly direction 745 feet more or less to a point, said
point being at the intersection of the eastern boundary of said parcel 6310 and
the northern boundary of the right-of-way of State Road 1621; thence following
in a straight line 70 feet more or less and crossing said right-of-way to a
point, said point being at the intersection of the southern boundary of said
right-of-way and the center line of Beaverdam Creek; thence following in the
centerline of Beaverdam Creek in a southerly direction 6,080 feet more or less
to a point, said point being at the intersection of the centerline of Beaverdam
Creek and the centerline of Rough Creek; thence following the centerline of
Rough Creek in a northwesterly direction 2,160 feet more or less to a point,
said point being at the intersection of the centerline of Rough Creek and the
western boundary of parcel 7766 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8668; thence
following in a southerly direction the western boundary of the following
parcels on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8668: 7766, 8208, 8121, 7020, 8887, 0753,
0576, and 0342, 1,996 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the
intersection of the western boundary of said parcel 0342 and the northern
boundary of parcel 6105 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8668; thence following the
northern boundary of said parcel 6105 in a westerly direction 420 feet more or
less to a point, said point being at the northwestern corner of said parcel
6105; thence following the western boundary of said parcel 6105 in a southerly
direction 220 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the
southwestern corner of said parcel 6105; thence following in a straight line a
southwesterly direction 10 feet more or less to a point, said point being at
the intersection of the centerlines of Rice Cove Creek and an unnamed creek, as
shown on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8668; thence following the centerline of said
unnamed creek in a westerly direction 2,360 feet more or less to a point, said
point being at the intersection of the centerline of said unnamed creek and the
easternmost corner of parcel 8043 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8658; thence
following the southern boundary of said parcel 8043 in a westerly direction 993
feet to a point, said point being at the intersection of the westernmost corner
of said parcel 8043 and the southeastern boundary of parcel 5370 on Haywood
County Tax Sheet 8658; thence following the southeastern, southern, and western
boundaries of said parcel 5370 first in a southwesterly, then westerly, then
northerly direction 5,620 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the
intersection of the western boundary of said parcel 5370 and the easternmost
corner of parcel 3128 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8658; thence following the
northeastern boundary of said parcel 3128 in a northwesterly direction 1,850
feet more or less to a point, said point being at the intersection of the
northeastern boundary of said parcel 3128 and the centerline of Thickety Creek;
thence following the centerline of Thickety Creek in a southwesterly direction
1,840 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the second intersection
of the centerline of Thickety Creek and an interior lot line as shown on
Haywood County Tax Sheets 8658 and 8659; thence following said interior lot
line in a generally northerly direction 3,480 feet more or less to a point,
said point being at the intersection of said interior lot line and the common
boundary line of Crabtree Township and Beaverdam Township; thence following
said common boundary line in a southwesterly direction 1,400 feet more or less
to a point, said point being at the intersection of said common boundary line
and the southwestern corner of parcel 1431 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8659;
thence following the western boundary of said parcel 1431 and parcel 4040 on
Haywood County Tax Sheet 8659 in a northerly direction 1,880 feet more or less
to a point, said point being at the intersection of the western boundary of
said parcel 4040 and the southern boundary of parcel 0646 on Haywood County Tax
Sheet 8659; thence following the southern boundary of said parcel 0646 and
parcel 8106 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8659 in a westerly direction 320 feet
more or less to a point, said point being at the southwestern corner of said
parcel 8106; thence following the western boundary of the following parcels on
Haywood County Tax Sheet 8659: 8106, 4289, and 6397 in a northerly direction
3,960 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the intersection of the
western boundary of said parcel 6397 and the southern boundary of parcel 5499
on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8659; thence following the southern boundary of
said parcel 5499 in a westerly direction 185 feet more or less to a point, said
point being at the southwestern corner of said parcel 5499; thence following
the western boundary of said parcel 5499 and parcel 8553 on Haywood County Tax
Sheet 8659 in a northerly direction 1,540 feet more or less to a point, said
point being at the intersection of the western boundary of said parcel 8553 and
the centerline of Jo Ab Branch; thence following the centerline of Jo Ab Branch
in a northeasterly direction 6,100 feet more or less to a point, said point
being at the intersection of the centerline of Jo Ab Branch and the western
boundary of parcel 9732 on Haywood County Tax Sheet 8659; thence following the
western boundary of said parcel 9732 in a northerly direction 610 feet more or
less to a point, said point being at the intersection of the western boundary
of said parcel 9732 and the common boundary of Haywood County and Buncombe
County; thence following in a straight line in a northeasterly direction 770
feet more or less to a point, said point being at the centerline of Willow
Creek at the origin of said creek; thence following the centerline of Willow
Creek in a northeasterly direction 4,980 feet more or less to a point, said
point being at the intersection of the centerline of Willow Creek and the
northeastern boundary of lot 1 on Buncombe County Tax Map 10 in Sandy Mush
Township; thence following the northeastern boundary of said lot 1 in a
southeasterly and then southerly direction 1,560 feet more or less to a point,
said point being at the intersection of the northeastern boundary of said lot 1
and the northwestern boundary of lot 3 on Buncombe County Tax Map 10 in Sandy
Mush Township; thence following the northwestern, northern and eastern
boundaries of said lot 3 in a generally easterly direction and then a southerly
direction 2,665 feet more or less to a point, said point being at the
intersection of the eastern boundary of said lot 3 and the northern boundary of
lot 2 on Buncombe County Tax Map 10 in Sandy Mush Township; thence following
the northern and eastern boundaries of said lot 2 in a generally easterly and
then southerly direction 4,315 feet more or less to a point, said point being
at the intersection of the eastern boundary of said lot 2 and the common
boundary of Haywood County and Buncombe County; thence following said common
boundary in a generally northeasterly direction 1,720 feet more or less to
point of beginning.
   (2)   This is a general description and should not be construed to be an
engineering accurate description.
   (b)   The official copy of this section and map shall be on record in the
office of the Town Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours.
The Town Clerk shall cause a certified copy of this section and map and any
subsequent amendments to be recorded in the offices of the Register of Deeds of
the County of Haywood. The Town Clerk shall cause signs, signposts, or similar
readily identifiable markers to be installed at points of intersection of the
above described boundary with all roads, streets, and highways.
(Ord. of 9/15/87)
   (c)   The following described area is included in the Town of Canton's
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction:
   (1)   BEGINNING at a point in the center of the Southern Railway in the
existing eastern town limits, thence with the center of the Southern Railway in
an easterly direction approximately one mile to the northwestern boundary of
Betty Jo Coleman's property; thence S 3° W to the center of Hominy Creek;
thence in a westerly direction with the center of Hominy Creek to a point where
North Hominy Creek joins Hominy Creek, thence measuring a distance of 200' from
the center of the right-of-way of Asheville Highway, parallel to the Asheville
Highway, continuing in a westerly direction to a point in the existing town
limits, thence following the existing town limits to the beginning.
   (2)   This is a general description and should not be construed to be an
engineering accurate description.
   (3)   The official copy of this section and map shall be on record in the
office of the Town Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours.
The Town Clerk shall cause a certified copy of this section and map and any
subsequent amendments to be recorded in the offices of the Register of Deeds of
the County of Haywood. The Town Clerk shall cause signs, signposts, or similar
readily identifiable markers to be installed at points of intersection of the
above described boundary with all roads, streets, and highways.
(Ord. of 8/12/97)
Section 9-6002 Establishment over area watershed water supply.
   (a)   Said boundaries are delineated on the face of a map entitled,
“Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Boundary Map of the Town of Canton's Critical
Area Watershed Water Supply,” which is attached hereto and is hereby adopted by
reference and is further described as follows:
   (1)   BEGINNING at a point being at the Town's Pigeon River raw water intake
on Sheet No. 8656.01 of the Haywood County Lands Records Management Map; thence
following the northern boundary of parcel 8756 in an easterly direction to
where it intersects with highway 215; thence in a southerly direction along
highway 215 to the end of parcel 8756: thence in a southeasterly direction
across highway 215 to the northwestern point of parcel 1359; thence in a
easterly direction along the northern boundary of parcels 1359 and 6125 to
where parcel 6125 intersects with the Canton City Limits Boundary Line: thence
in a southeasterly direction following the Canton City Limits Boundary Line,
which crosses parcel 3333 and intersects with State Road 1926: thence following
the Canton City Limits Boundary Line along the eastern boundaries of parcels
1967 and 3633 to a point where the Canton City Limits Boundary Line intersects
with parcels 8040 and 2325: thence following the eastern and southern
boundaries of parcel 2325 to where it intersects with the east bank of the
Pigeon River; thence following the Pigeon River downstream in a straight line
and a northwesterly direction for 260' more or less to where said line
intersects with parcel 8775 on the west bank of the Pigeon River. Thence in a
westerly direction across parcel 8775 for 650' to where it intersects with
Highway 215: thence following highway 215 in a southwesterly direction for
1800' more or less to a point where it intersects with the west boundary of
parcel 7244; thence in a northwesterly direction along the west side of parcel
7244 to where it intersects with parcels 1263 and 2793; thence following the
northwest boundary of parcel 7244 in a northeasterly direction to where it
intersects with parcel 2994: thence following the south boundary of parcel 2994
in a southeasterly direction to where it intersects with parcels 7531 and 8775;
thence following the south boundary of parcel 7531 in an easterly direction to
where it intersects with parcels 4557 and 4609; thence following the southern
boundary of parcel 4557 in a northeasterly direction to where it intersects
with parcel 8810; thence following the east boundary of 8810 in a southerly
direction to where it intersects with parcel 8564: thence following the east
boundary of parcel 8564 to where it intersects with roadway serving Town of
Canton's water treatment plant located on parcel 0470: thence following roadway
in a southerly direction 340' more or less to raw water intake, point of
BEGINNING.
   (2)   This is a general description and should not be construed to be an
engineering accurate description.
   (b)   The official copy of this section and map shall be on record in the
office of the Town Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours.
The Town Clerk shall cause a certified copy of this section and map and any
subsequent amendments to be recorded in the offices of the Register of Deeds of
the County of Haywood. The Town Clerk shall cause signs, signposts, or similar
readily identifiable markers to be installed at points of intersection of the
above described boundary with all roads, streets, and highways.
(Ord. of 9/14/93)
Section 9-6003 Establishment over New Clyde Highway (US 19-23)
   The following described area is included in the town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction:
   BEGINNING at a point in the existing town limit line, 300' south of the New
Clyde Highway right-of-way, continuing in a westerly direction with the New
Clyde Highway and parallel to the New Clyde Highway, 300' from the center of
the New Clyde Highway right-of-way to a point in the center of Sally Haynes
Branch, thence continuing with Sally Haynes Branch in a northerly direction to
a point 300' from the center of the New Clyde Highway right-of-way on the north
side of the highway, thence continuing in an easterly direction parallel to the
New Clyde Highway, 300' from the center of the New Clyde Highway to a point in
the existing town limits.
(Ord. of 4-14-98)
CHAPTER 7
Signs
Section
9-7001     Intent.
Section
9-7002     Definitions.
Section
9-7003     Enforcement and administration.
Section
9-7004     Signs exempt from regulations.
Section
9-7005     Signs not requiring a permit.
Section
9-7006     Signs requiring a permit.
Section
9-7007     Prohibited signs.
Section
9-7008     Non-conforming signs.
Section
9-7009     Off-premise signs.
Section
9-7010     General requirements.
Section
9-7011     Maintenance.
Section
9-7012     Fee for sign permit.
Section
9-7013     Non-commercial messages.
Section 9-7001   Intent.
   These regulations shall apply to the regulation of all outdoor advertising
and to identification, business and principal use signs as defined by this
chapter.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7002   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Attached sign. A sign which is itself directly affixed to the principal
building on a lot.
   Banners. A sign with message or advertisement that is applied to flexible
substrate of cloth or vinyl. The sign is held in place by grommets, ropes, and
ties and is intended for temporary use only.
   Changeable copy sign. Includes scrolling marquees, time and temperature and
like signs on which message copy is changed electronically.
   Commemorative sign. Any sign erected in remembrance of a person or event or
which is commemorative in nature. Any commemorative sign shall be approved by
the Board of Aldermen.
   Construction sign. A temporary sign whose message is limited to
identification of architects, engineers, contractors, and other individuals or
firms involved with construction on a specific site, the name of the building,
the intended purpose of the building, and the expected completion date.
   Flashing sign. A sign that incorporates flashing or blinking lights, or a
sign with moving parts or parts which simulate movement, including signs or
lights on signs reflecting or emitting a glaring light that could impair driver
vision.
   Free-standing sign. A sign supported by a structure placed in the ground and
which is wholly independent of any building or object other than the sign
structure for support.
   Governmental sign. Any sign erected by or on the order of an authorized
public official in the performance of his office or duty including, but not
limited to, traffic control signs, street name signs, warning and directional
signs, public notice, or signs of a similar nature.
   Incidental sign. A single face, non-illuminated professional or announcement
sign attached wholly to a building, window or door containing information
relative to emergencies, store hours, credit cards honored, and other similar
accessory information.
   Lot. A tract or parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a
building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the
customary accessories and open space belonging to the same.
   Noncommercial message. Any message protected by the First Amendment that
does not direct attention to a business operated for profit, or to a commodity
or service for sale.
   Off-premises signs. A sign which is designed to advertise or intended to
advertise a business, activity, product or function which is not carried on or
conducted on the property on which the sign is located.
   Pennants and balloons. Any animated, rotating, fluttering or nonstationary
device made of flexible materials designed to attract attention.
   Political sign. A sign erected for the purpose of advertising a candidate or
stating a position regarding an issue upon which the voters of the town may
vote.
   Portable sign. A sign generally constructed to be easily movable without a
permanent attachment to the ground and which may or may not be equipped with
wheels. Such signs may be designed for changeable messages. Signs painted on or
attached to operational vehicles and signs defined as temporary signs are not
included in this definition.
   Principal use identification signs. A sign which advertises a product,
business or services or which conveys general information or data relating to
the primary use of or primary products produced by the principal user of the
lot or premises.
   Reader board. A sign on which message copy is changed manually through the
utilization of attachable letters, numbers, symbols and other similar character
or changeable pictorial panes.
   Roofline. The horizontal line which passes through the highest point of any
roof.
   Sign. A name, identification, description, display or illumination which is
affixed to, or painted, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building
structure or lot and which directs attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization or business.
   Sign, outdoor advertising. A type of advertising sign with overall display
dimensions not in excess of 12 by 25 feet (sometimes called "Billboard").
   Sign structure. A supporting structure erected or intended for the purpose
of displaying a sign. This definition does not include a building, fence, or
any other structure that is designed for any purpose other than the display of
a sign.
   Temporary sign. An informational sign or other advertising device intended
for a limited period of display.
   Unified business development. Where more than one principal building or
business exists on a single lot or where any building contains a gross floor
area of 5,000 square feet or more, such building(s) or business(es) shall be
deemed to be a unified business development. Bona fide motels and rental
cottages shall not be deemed to be unified business developments unless
operated in conjunction with other businesses.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7003.   Enforcement and administration.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby given the authority to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. He shall be responsible for issuing
permits for the erection of all outdoor signs and advertising, identification,
business and principal use signs. (He shall be responsible for issuing permits
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.) The Building Inspector
shall refuse a permit for the erection of any sign which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. In addition to this requirement, a permit shall
be refused if the owner has or possesses any outstanding sign violation until
said violation is corrected. In the absence of the Building Inspector, the
Manager or an appointee designated by the Manager shall have the authority to
act in that capacity.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any decision of the
Building Inspector regarding any provision of this chapter may appeal such
decision to the Board of Adjustment. Such appeal may be taken within ten days
of the Building Inspector's decision by filing with the Building Inspector a
Notice of Appeal setting forth either the reasons that the appellant believes
that the Building Inspector's decision is in error or the reasons that the
appellant should be granted a variance from the provisions of this chapter.
Upon receipt of an appeal, the Building Inspector shall transmit the appeal
together with any necessary records to the Board of Adjustment for hearing.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Building Inspector in the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals for variances
from the provisions of this chapter. Variances may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment only when special conditions exist whereby a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship.
   (E)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to reverse a decision or determination of the Building Inspector
or to grant a variance from the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   All decisions and findings of the Board of Adjustment shall be final
administrative decisions. Appeals from decisions of the Board of Adjustments
shall be taken to the Superior Court by proceedings in the nature of
certiorari.
   (G)   If any sign is erected, constructed, repaired, converted or maintained
in violation of this chapter, the Board of Aldermen or any adjacent or other
property owner who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other
remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action in
proceeding to stop the violation.
   (H)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not exceeding $50. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall be
considered a separate offense, provided the violation is not corrected within
seven days, or 48 hours for a temporary sign, after notice of the violation has
been given.
      (2)   In addition to the above statement and in accordance with G.S.
160A-175, the Town of Canton shall have the power to impose penalties for the
violation of the provisions of this chapter as provided in this section. The
town may enforce this chapter by any one, all, or a combination of the remedies
authorized and prescribed by G.S. 160A-175, with the exception of subsection
(b). When a violation subjects an offender to a civil penalty, said penalty
shall be $50 per day. Unless the violation is corrected or appeal is made to
the Town of Canton Board of Zoning Adjustment, the civil penalty shall begin
ten days after the notice of the violation has been given by means of a
certified letter by the Town of Canton official. Further, this chapter shall
provide that each calendar day's continuing violation shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense, and the total penalty thus resulting shall be
recorded as a lien against the property.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7004   Signs exempt from regulations.
   The following signs are exempt from the regulations of this chapter, except
where prohibited under Section
9-7007.
   (A)   Signs not legible from beyond the boundaries of the property on which
they are located.
   (B)   Governmental signs, including traffic warning or regulatory signs and
devices.
   (C)   Trade names and graphics which are located on gas pumps, newspaper,
soft drink and similar vending devices.
   (D)   Flags, or insignia of any governmental, non-profit, or civic
organization.
   (E)   Seasonal/holiday signs and decorations associated with a national or
religious holiday.
   (F)   Warning of danger signs posted by utility or construction companies.
   (G)   Signs on vehicles indicating the name of a business, unless the
primary use of the vehicle is for advertising or for the display of signs.
Vehicles may not park on state or private property for displaying purposes. All
vehicles must be registered, licensed and have a valid inspection.
   (H)   Non-advertising decorative flags or devices.
   (I)   Signs required by law, statute or ordinance.
   (J)   No trespassing, no loitering and similar private warning signs.
   (K)   Incidental signs.
   (L)   Commemorative signs that have been approved by the Town Council.
   (M)   Signs painted on or displayed in windows.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7005   Signs not requiring a permit.
   The following types of signs are permitted without requiring a permit:
   (A)   Regulatory or warning signs not used for advertising purposes. Such
signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area per side.
   (B)   "For Sale" or "For Rent" signs pertaining to realty, on the premises
offered for sale or rent which do not exceed eight square feet and which are
not illuminated. There shall be a limit of one such sign for each lot and the
sign must state what is for sale or rent such as house, lot, etc. A commercial
lot or any residential tract of land with two (2) or more acres or 500 feet or
more of road frontage will be allowed one sign not to exceed 16 square feet.
All such signs shall be removed within five days from the rental or sale
closing.
   (C)   Church bulletin boards and identification signs whether lighted or
unlighted. There shall be a limit of one such sign for each lot.
   (D)   Signs advertising agricultural products produced on the premises, not
exceeding 16 square feet in area per side. There shall be a limit of one such
sign for each lot.
   (E)   Directional or informational signs of public, civic and non-profit
organizations.
   (F)   Historical markers erected by a bona fide historical association. All
signs shall be limited to 16 square feet in area per side.
   (G)   Construction signs pertaining to and during the construction or repair
of property on which they are located. Such signs shall be removed prior to
completion of such project and may not be erected prior to issuance of a
building permit. Such signs shall be limited to 16 square feet in area per
side.
   (H)   Political signs. Such signs shall not be attached to utility poles,
shall not be displayed more than 60 days prior to the election, and shall be
removed within five days after the issue to which the signs refer has occurred,
and shall have the written permission of the property owner on which the sign
is placed. Political signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area. A $50
refundable deposit is required prior to erection of any political signs.
   (I)   Board authorized or ordered signs to include town sponsored special
events, congratulatory or special recognition signs or banners for athletic
teams, military units and the like. Time limits shall be set along with the
authorization to post such signs or banners.
   (J)   Yard sales providing that all other requirements regulating yard sales
as listed in the Code of Ordinances are complied with.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7006   Signs requiring a permit.
   (A)   Principal use identification signs. The total sign area which is
allotted to principal use identification shall not exceed 192 square feet
(total front and back, two-sided). Only one sign may be an unattached (free-
standing detached) sign. No (free-standing detached) principal use
identification sign shall have more than 96 square feet per surface side. No
more than 96 square feet shall be allotted to attached signs. No attached sign
shall be less than 16 square feet in area. No banners, pennants or balloons may
cover, or be attached, to a principal use identification sign. Banners,
pennants or balloons may not be used as a permanent sign, but for special
events and sales as approved and permitted.
      (1)   Reader board signs provided the sign on which message copy is
changed manually through the utilization of attachable letters, numbers,
symbols and other similar characters or changeable pictorial panels provided
that the message or information is presented in such a manner as not to flash.
Such signs shall be included in the allotted 96 square feet.
      (2)   Changeable copy signs, scrolling marquees, time and temperature and
like signs are allowed as a special exception provided that the message or
information is presented in such a manner as to deliver the message and not to
"get attention". The words or symbols may scroll or alternate but not in such a
manner as to flash. Such signs shall be included in the allotted 96 square
feet.
   (B)   Entrance, exit and parking signs. "Entrance", "Exit", or "Parking"
signs with a maximum size of six square feet (three square feet per side),
shall be permitted under this chapter. All such signs shall be limited to the
wording "entrance", "exit", or "parking". Only one sign shall be allowed for
each exit or entrance. Entrance, exit and parking signs may include the
business name but may not exceed a maximum size of three square feet per side.
   (C)   Residential developments (subdivisions, planned unit developments,
mobile home parks) and all permitted non residential uses located in
residential districts shall be allowed one attached sign not to exceed 12
square feet in area and one free-standing sign per street frontage not to
exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height. A freestanding sign
shall have a setback of no less than 10 feet from the street right-of-way or 15
feet from the traveled portion of a street where the right-of-way does not
exist or cannot be determined. Such signs may be illuminated.
   (D)   Unified Business Development signs. In addition to the other
regulations of this chapter, the following regulations shall apply on property
which is developed as a unified or group business development.
      (1)   Individual stores or business establishments within a Unified
Business Development are limited to signs having a maximum square footage of 48
square feet and a minimum of 16 square feet attached to some structural portion
of the Unified Business Development in addition to the surface area of its
principal use identification signs.
      (2)   In addition to signs permitted for individual stores or business
establishments within a Unified Business Development, there shall be no more
than one general unattached sign [free-standing detached] not to exceed 150
square feet. Section
9-7010, "General Requirements", shall apply.
   (E)   Portable signs. Permit not to exceed 30 days for new operating
businesses while awaiting the installation of a permanent free standing
principal use identification sign or if the principal use identification sign
has been destroyed by storm, accident, or other causes. Documentation of a new
sign order is required. The permit may be renewed by the building inspector
with just cause for 30 days.
   (F)   Professional signs in residentially zoned area announcing professions,
businesses or home occupations not exceeding four square feet per side in area
and shall be non-illuminated.
   (G)   Special events and sales, banners, balloons, and signs. Banners and
signs may be used for special events provided that the event is recognized, and
the use of banners and signs is authorized by the Building Inspector. Special
event banners and signs shall be used no more than ten days prior to the event
nor more than two days after the event. Other event banners and signs may be
allowed by permit only.
   (H)   Billboards. Billboards and other similar outdoor advertising
structures shall be erected or placed in conformity with the side, front, and
rear yard requirements of the district in which located. However, no billboard
shall be erected to exceed 30 feet above the ground level or 25 feet in length.
No billboard shall be erected or placed closer than within 100 feet of any
residential district.
   (I)   Sandwich board signs. One sandwich board or sidewalk sign is
permissible if:
      (1)   It does not exceed 24" in width and 36" in height.
      (2)   It allows for a clear and straight pedestrian pathway of at least
40" between the sign and any other structure(s). This includes buildings,
refuse containers, planters, utility poles and sidewalk displays.
      (3)   Signs may not be placed in the roadway or in any municipal lot or
on street parking area.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7007   Prohibited signs.
   The following signs shall not be permitted, erected or maintained in the
Town of Canton:
   (A)   Outdoor advertising devices such as inflatable signs.
   (B)   Signs which incorporate or emit any sounds which are intended to
attract attention.
   (C)   No flashing lights or flashing signs or portable signs shall be
erected after the effective date of this chapter. All flashing lights or
flashing signs or portable signs in existence before the effective date shall
be considered non-conforming uses and shall be brought into compliance within
six months after the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Any sign or sign structure which:
      (1)   Was not erected in conformity of the building codes of the Town of
Canton; or
      (2)   Creates in any way an unsafe distraction for motor vehicle
operators; or
      (3)   Obstructs the view of motor vehicle operators entering a public
roadway from the parking area, serving drive, private driveway, alley or other
thoroughfare.
      (4)   Any sign which obstructs free ingress to or egress from a required
door, window, fire escape, or other required exit way.
      (5)   Any non-governmental sign, whether temporary or permanent, within
any public street or highway right-of-way.
      (6)   Temporary or portable signs other than allowed in Section
9-7006(E).
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7008   Non-conforming signs.
   (A)   All signs described in Section
9-7007 shall be removed in six months.
   (B)   Any time that ownership of a non-conforming sign is changed, such non-
conforming sign shall be brought into compliance.
   (C)   No changes shall be allowed as to the shape or size of the total sign
structure of any nonconforming sign. Changes in coloring, lettering, or
information conveyed shall be permitted.
   (D)   Non conforming signs other than those described in Section
9-7007 shall be considered non-conforming uses. Non-conforming uses shall be
brought into compliance within a period of five years from the date the sign
becomes non-conforming. Nothing herein shall prohibit the removal and
replacement of seasonal signs exactly in the same condition on a seasonal basis
provided that the required sign permit has been issued and in all other ways is
in conformance with the chapter.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7009   Off-premise signs.
   Off-premise signs are prohibited in the jurisdiction of the Town of Canton;
however, any business within the corporate limits of the Town of Canton that
does not front on a town street, NC or US highway shall be permitted one free-
standing principal use identification sign that may be located off premise
along with one free-standing on-premise principal use sign that combined do not
exceed 96 square feet and in all other ways shall comply with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation off-premises sign requirements. All new
signs must be permitted through the Department of Transportation, if
applicable, Town of Canton, and the property owner on which the sign is placed.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7010   General requirements.
   The following signs are regulated and require a permit.
   (A)   Maximum sign area and number of signs; calculation of sign area.
      (1)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area within that of the smallest rectangle, triangle, or circle
(smallest geometric figure of not more than eight straight lines) which
encompasses all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed such as lettering, design, symbols and
background. Frames and structure members not bearing advertising matter shall
not be included in computation of surface area.
      (2)   Any such measurements shall be taken on only one face of the sign;
however, informational advertising matter may be displayed on both sides of any
permitted sign. All double face sign surface areas shall be parallel and may be
separated by not more than 12 inches. When a sign consists of letters placed
directly on a wall, building surface, awning or marquee, or against open air
(as when raised above a marquee), there being no background to the letters save
the wall or surface itself, the area of the sign shall be that of the smallest
rectangle, triangle or circle (rectilinear figure of not more than eight
straight lines) within which all of the lettering can be included.
   (B)   Sign location. No sign shall be erected, constructed or maintained so
as to interfere with vision clearance along any public street or public road,
or at any intersection or junction or two or more traffic arteries.
      (1)   Setbacks. Except as specifically authorized herein, all pole (free-
standing detached) signs or signs detached from a building shall be placed no
less than eight feet from the street curbline. No signs of any nature shall be
permitted on any public right-of-way except those erected for orderly traffic
control, and other municipal and governmental purposes, or directional signs of
six square feet or less and referring only to organizations which are non-
profit in character, or to construction projects in progress.
      (2)   Unattached (free-standing detached) signs. No unattached (free-
standing detached)signs shall exceed a height of 20 feet as measured, from the
curbline on the nearest roadway. All unattached signs having a setback of less
than 12 feet from the curbline shall have a minimum ground clearance of six
feet (except entrance and exit signs); however, a solid base shall be allowed
to a height of two feet above the curbline.
      (3)   Entrance signs. Entrance signs shall not exceed a maximum height of
three feet as measured from the curb grade at the nearest roadway.
      (4)   Signs attached to buildings. Signs erected and overhanging any
sidewalk must be placed at least nine feet above the sidewalk and may extend
over the sidewalk a distance equal to two-thirds the width of the sidewalk, but
in no case exceeding ten feet. No sign shall be allowed to extend above the
roofline of the building.
      (5)   Any sign (together with its supporting structure) now or hereafter
existing which, 30 days or more after the premises have been vacated,
advertises an activity, business, product or service no longer produced or
conducted upon the premises upon which such sign is located. Said sign shall
have the lettering removed, painted over or covered by a non-lettered wrap
whose sole purpose is to cover and obscure any sign or sign message or content.
The sign owner is responsible for maintenance of any wrap. This provision shall
not apply to permanent signs accessory to businesses which are open only on a
seasonal basis.
      (6)   Construction. All signs, permanent, temporary and portable shall be
designed and constructed with a professional appearance using substrates,
lettering and graphics standard and commonly used in the sign industry.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7011   Maintenance.
   All signs, together with any supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be
kept in repair and in a safe place of preservation. Deteriorating or
dilapidated signs shall be removed by owner or by the town at a cost to the
sign owner after 90 days notice. A sign shall be in a state of disrepair when
more than 20% of its total surface area is covered with disfigured, cracked,
ripped or peeling paint or poster paper, or any combination of these
conditions. Any sign in a state of disrepair shall be considered in violation
of this chapter. No sign shall be allowed to stand with bent or broken sign
facing, broken supports, loose appendages or struts which cause the sign to
stand more than 15 degrees from the perpendicular. No sign or sign structure
shall be allowed to have weeds, vines or other vegetation growing on it and
obscuring it from the street or highway from which it is intended to be viewed.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7012   Fee for sign permit.
   All persons, firms or corporations applying for a new sign permit shall pay
a minimum fee as determined by the Board of Aldermen to the Town of Canton. A
sketch drawn to scale with the dimensions of the sign shall be submitted with
the fee, along with written permission of the property owner as to the proposed
sign.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Section 9-7013   Non-commercial messages.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any sign, display or
device allowed under this chapter may contain, in lieu of any other copy, any
otherwise lawful non-commercial message that does not direct attention to a
business operated for profit, or to a commodity or service for sale, and that
complies with size, lighting, height and other requirements of the district in
which it is located.
(Ord. of 10/27/09)
Appendix
APPENDIX I
Traffic
Section 101
Section 101   Traffic control signals shall be installed at the following
locations (See Section
7-1035):
   (1)   Newfound, North Main Street - 6 traffic lights
   (2)   Main, North Main, Fibreville, School Street - 8 traffic lights
   (3)   Newfound, Main, Bridge Street - 8 traffic lights
   (4)   Church, Bridge Street* - 4 traffic lights
   (5)   Main, Park, Church Street - 5 traffic lights
   (6)   Park, Academy Street - 5 traffic lights
   (7)   Park, Adams Street - 7 traffic lights
   (8)   Intersection of 4 Lane, (U.S. 19-23) Old Clyde Road - 6 traffic lights
(2 train on track lights)
   (9)   Main, Penland Street - 6 traffic lights
   (10)   Main, Pisgah Drive - 4 traffic lights
   (11)   Main, Academy Street* - 6 traffic lights
* Indicates no right turn on red.
Section 102
Vehicles may not turn right on red lights after coming to a complete stop on
the following streets (See Section
7-1035 (3) a.):
   (1)   Church, Bridge Street - 4 traffic lights
   (2)   Main, Academy Street - 6 traffic lights
   (3)   Vehicles traveling North on Main Street at the intersection of North
Main Street shall not be permitted to make a right turn onto North Main Street.
(Ord. of 10/10/78)
   (4)   Vehicles traveling East on Substation Road at the intersection of
Pisgah Drive (NC-110), Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. until 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. of 4/8/08)
Section 103
Flashing yellow caution signal lights shall be installed at the following
locations (See Section
7-1037):
   (1)   Newfound, Oak, Short Street - 4 caution lights
   (2)   Trammell Avenue, North Main Street - 1 caution light
Section 104
Diagonal parking. All vehicles shall be parked within the lines drawn for
parking on the following streets or portions thereof. (See Section
7-1142 (a)):
   Immediately in front of the U.S. Post Office
Section 105
Speed Limits. Speed limits are established for the following streets:
   (1)   Allen Farm Road beginning at the south end of Rhoda Street and
extending to the east corporate limits - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of -/- /-)
   (2)   Skyline Drive beginning at Cooper Street and extending to the south
corporate limits - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of -/- /-)
   (3)   Newfound Street (SR 1004) from Bridge Street (SR 1643) to the eastern
corporate limits, approximately 0.20 mile south of SR 1613 - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of -/- /-)
   (4)   Beaverdam Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (5)   Penland Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 5/12/98; Am. Ord. of 10/22/02)
   (6)   Pigeon Street - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (7)   Pisgah Drive - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (8)   Substation Road - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81; Amended by Ord. of 3/8/05)
   (9)   Academy Street - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (10)   Fiberville Road - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (11)   Birch Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (12)   Reed Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (13)   Smathers Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (14)   Thompson Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (15)   Rhoda Street - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (16)   High Street - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (17)   Trammell Avenue - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81; Amended by Ord. of 3/8/11)
   (18)   Newfound Street - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/24/81)
   (19)   NC 215 from US 19-23-74 north to a point 0.03 mile north of SR 1589 -
40 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 8/22/95)
   (20)   Oak Street - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 7/11/89)
   (21)   Short Street - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 7/11/89)
   (22)   Wesley Street and Wesley Street Extension - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 12/19/89)
   (23)   Skyland Terrace - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 7/11/95)
   (24)   Thomson Avenue - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 7/11/95)
   (25)   Ballew Street - 15 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 7/11/95)
   (26)   Fiberville Main - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 7/11/95)
   (27)   NC 215 from a point 0.03 mile north of SR 1589, north to point 0.13
mile south of I-40 - 45 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 8/22/95)
   (28)   Williams Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 9/14/99)
   (29)   Spring Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 8/22/00)
   (30)   Pearl Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 8/22/00)
   (31)   Terrace Drive - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/13/01)
   (32)   Valley Street - 10 m.p.h.
(Ord of 7/10/01)
   (33)   Charles Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 9/11/01)
   (34)   NC 215 (South Penland Street), from a point approximately 0.30 mile
south of Pearl Street northward 0.38 mile to Reed Street, NC 215 (Reed Street),
from south Penland Street, northward 0.21 mile to US 19/23 (Main Street) - 25
m.p.h.
(Ord. of 10/22/02)
   (35)   Main Street, from the intersection of Depot Street to the
intersection of Bridge and Newfound Streets - 10 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 2/26/08)
   (36)   Fourth Street, from the intersection of North Main Street to the
intersection of Allen Street, and North Fourth Street, from the intersection of
Allen Street to High Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 7/27/10)
   (37)   Bailey Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 6/28/11)
   (38)   Johnson Street - 20 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 6/28/11)
   (39)   Haywood Drive - 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. of 1/22/15)
   (40)   Winfield Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (41)   Prospect Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (42)   Center Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (43)   Lewis Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (44)   Mears Avenue - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (45)   First Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (46)   Second Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (47)   Third Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (48)   Oakland Circle - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 11/10/16)
   (49)   Ferguson Street - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 12/8/16)
   (50)   Meadowbrook Drive - 20 m.p.h. (Ord. of 2/9/17)
   (51)   Pharr Street - 15 m.p.h. (Ord. of 10/14/21)
   (52)   Trammell Avenue - 15 m.p.h. (Ord. of 2/8/24)
Section 106
Prohibited Parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in
the following locations:
   (1)   On Newfound Street from its intersection with Bridge Street to its
intersection with North Main Street, except parking shall be permitted on
Sundays. In the event parking on Newfound Street is needed for out of the
ordinary events, permission may be granted by the Chief of Police or his
designee, to residents or property owners on this street.
(Ord. of 4/24/79)
   (2)   On the north side of Substation Road (the side of Substation Road away
from Pisgah High School).  (Ord. of 6/8/82)
   (3)   On North Main Street between the intersections of Short Street and
Patton Avenue.
(Ord. of 8/10/82)
   (4)   On Academy Street within 100 feet of the intersection of Academy
Street and Hampton Heights.
(Ord. of 6/11/85)
   (5)   In front of Champion Training Center on the north side of Park Street
for more than 30 minutes.
(Ord. of 11/10/92)
   (6)   On the South side of Park Street from the intersection of Main Street
West to the entrance of the alleyway on the west side of 19 Park Street for
more than 30 minutes.
   (7)   On Thompson Street between the intersections of Elizabeth Street and
Warner Drive.
   (8)   On Williams Street between the intersections of Spring Street and
Smathers Street.
(Ord. of 1/10/95; Amended by Ord. of 3/14/95; Amended by Ord. of 8/28/07)
   (9)   On High Street between the intersections of Glenn Street and Through
Street.
(Ord. of 5/25/10)
   (10)   On Penland Street between Main Street and Park Street.
(Ord. of 11/23/10)
   (11)   On Hillside Street between the no parking signs located adjacent to
Haywood County Parcel Identification Number 8653-79-8377; beginning at a
Progress Energy utility pole number 4ax49 on the south side of Hillside Street
for a distance of eighty (80) feet.
(Ord. of 2/27/12)
   (12)   On Spring Street, beginning at the intersection of Academy Street and
extending northward for approximately 400'.
(Ord. of 1/28/16)
   (13)   On Northridge Drive, beginning at the northeastern property corner of
37 Northbridge Drive and extending approximately 150' southwestward.
(Ord. of 3/24/16)
Section 107
Truck Parking. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
park a tractor trailer, or leave a trailer at the following locations:
   (1)   Park Street between the Robertson YMCA and the railroad track to the
west of the Robertson YMCA.
(Ord. of 6/11/85)
Section 108
Tow-away Parking.
   (1)   Thirty-minute tow-away parking: The four parking spaces at Carolina
Power and Light Company on Main Street.
(Ord. of 6/14/88)
   (2)   Two-hour tow-away parking: All parking spaces in the area from Adams
Street west to Pisgah Drive and Sorrells Street.
(Ord. of 6/14/88; as amended by Ord. of 10/11/88)
Section 109
Tractor trailer trucks operated within town limits.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate a tractor trailer, tractor and trailer
truck, tractor and tandem trailers, and trucks with three (3) or more axles on
the following streets:
      (a)   Oak Street.
      (b)   Short Street.
      (c)   Newfound Street.
      (d)   Trammell Avenue.
      (e)   Terrace Drive.
   (2)   Service trucks are excepted from this provision.
   (3)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and maintained signs at
all entry points to these streets directing tractor trailer traffic in
accordance with the provision of this section.
   (4)   It shall be illegal for vehicles with three or more axles to turn
right from Church Street to Main Street.
(Ord. of 9/24/91; as amended by Ord. of 7/28/93, Ord. of 11/14/00 and Ord. of
2/13/01)
Section 110
One-way Streets. The following are designated one-way streets:
   (1)   Ballew Street, from Patton Avenue west to Rocky Street. All traffic
entering Ballew Street shall travel west. All parking, including handicapped
parking, shall be on the north side of the street.
(Ord. of 11/28/00)
APPENDIX II
Zoning Amendments
Date Passed Description
Date Passed Description
3/25/86     Zoning the newly annexed property inside the horseshoe of Pigeon
            River as Heavy Industrial.
            Rezoning the area included within the borders of Oak and Short
3/25/86     Streets on the east, Frank Street on the north, Southern Railway on
            the south, and Champion and Presbyterian parking lots on the west,
            to Single-Family Residential.
6/24/86     Rezoning the property on the north side of Fiberville Road recently
            purchased by Champion International to Heavy Industrial.
6/24/86     Rezoning the area located along Oakland Circle and running eastward
            to Smathers Street to Single-Family Residential.
1/13/87     Rezoning the area at 41 Church Street from General Residential to
            Central Business.
6/12/90     Zoning the newly annexed area on Morning Star Road, known as
            Meadowbrook Elementary School, to Single-Family Residential.
9/25/90     Rezoning the area located at 131 Park Street from a General
            Business District to Heavy Industrial District.
5/28/96     Zoning property owned by Tom Parham on Carson Street as
            Manufactured Home Overlay District.
8/12/97     Zoning the Asheville Highway Extraterritorial Jurisdiction to
            General Business (C2).
            Zoning the property owned by Josephine S. Tracy, Tracy Subdivision,
8/26/97     located at the corner of Kims Cove Road and Morning Star Road, to
            Manufactured Home Overlay District (MHOD).
4-14-98     Zoning the property owned by Steve and Lisa Ledford off Warner Road
            to Manufactured Home Overlay District.
4-14-98     Zoning the New Clyde Highway Extraterritorial Jurisdiction to
            General Business (C2).
2-23-99     Zoning the property owned by Terry Mease on Dutch Cove Road to
            Manufactured Home Overlay District.
2-23-99     Zoning the property owned by Larry and Sherri Garland on Birch
            Street to Manufactured Home Overlay District.
6-22-99     Zoning the area annexed 5-11-99, listed to Patrick U. and Sherry
            Smathers, 181 Mama's Mountain, to R-1 Single-Family Residential.
            Zoning the area annexed 10-12-99, belonging to the town, a portion
10-12-99    of three tracts to General Business; and the portions of three
            tracts already inside the town limits are rezoned from Single-
            Family (R1) to General Business (C2).
            Zoning property off Glenn Street to provide for a Manufactured Home
3-28-00     Overlay District (MHOD). The existing zoning classification is
            Single-Family (R-1).
            Rezoning a tract of land on Pisgah Drive (8656-87-2376) listed to
5-9-00      First Two LLC, % Michael and David Singleton from Single-Family (R-
            1) to Neighborhood Business (C-3).
            Zoning property owned by Medford Jenkins off Carson Street to allow
6-16-00     a Manufactured Home Overlay District (MHOD). The existing zoning
            classification is Single-Family (R-1).
            Extending existing Manufactured Home Overlay District (MHOD) to
9-12-00     include the property at 23 Lawrence Street. The underlying zoning
            classification is General Residential (R-2).
            Placing a Manufactured Home Overlay District (MHOD) on an area off
1-23-01     Cooper Street. The underlying zoning classification is Single-
            Family (R-1).
            Placing a Manufactured Home Overlay District (MHOD) on an area on
3-13-01     Meadowbrook Drive. The underlying zoning classification is Single-
            Family (R-1).
            Placing a Manufactured Home Overlay District (MHOD) on an area on
10-23-01    Star Ridge Road, 1.264 acres (Butch Allison property). The
            underlying zoning classification is Single-Family (R-1).
            Zoning the newly annexed property on US Highway 19-23, Asheville
11-12-03    Highway consisting of 17.7 acres of Westmoreland property (Ord. of
            11/12/02) as General Business (C-2).
            Placing a Manufactured Home Overlay District (MHOD) on an area off
3-22-05     Carson Street, .6 acres (Kenneth Medford property). The underlying
            zoning classification is Single-Family (R-1).
 
APPENDIX III
Civil Penalties
Section 101 Civil penalties.
   (A)   In addition to or in lieu of any other remedies listed in the
following sections, a civil penalty may be imposed as follows:
   (1)   A violation shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the
amount of $50. No penalty shall be imposed if the offender abates the nuisance
within the prescribed time or requests the town to abate the nuisance under the
town’s fee schedule for service and equipment. If the offender does not abate
the nuisance within the proscribed time period, the penalty may be imposed for
each day the nuisance remains after the notice of violation was given and
terminating on the date it was abated by the offender or the town.
   (2)   The offender shall be issued a written citation by delivering in
person or mailed by certified or registered mail. The civil penalty must be
paid within 72 hours of its receipt by the offender.
   (3)   The penalty may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within the prescribed
period of time after he or she has been issued a citation.
   (B)   A violation of any of the following sections of Division II may be
charged as a civil penalty in lieu of or in addition to any other remedy:
   (1)   Part 4, Chapter 1, Article B Excavation and Repair Section 4-1021
through Section 4-1028.
   (2)   Part 4, Chapter 2 Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal Section
2001 through Section 2011.
   (3)   Part 5, Chapter 1, Article A Water System Section 5-1001 through
Section 5-1012.
   (4)   Part 5, Chapter 2, Article A Sewer System Section 5-2001 through
Section 5-2007.
   (5)   Part 6, Chapter 1, Article D Peddling and Soliciting Section 6-1061
through Section 6-1064.
   (6)   Part 6, Chapter 2, Article A Obstructions Section 6-2001 through
Section 6-2008.
   (7)   Part 6, Chapter 2, Article B Use and Cleanliness Section 6-2011
through Section 6-2020.
   (8)   Part 6, Chapter 2, Article C Parades and Demonstrations Section 6-2021
through Section 6-2029.
   (9)   Part 6, Chapter 2, Article D Yard Sales, Garage Sales and the Like
Section 6-2040 through Section 6-2043.
   (10)   Part 7, Chapter 1, Article D Traffic - Control Devices Section 7-
1038.
   (11)   Part 7, Chapter 1, Article I Miscellaneous Driving Rules Section 7-
1097 through Section 7-1098.
   (12)   Part 7, Chapter 1, Article K Regulations for Bicycles Section 7-1121
through Section 7-1131.
   (13)   Part 8, Chapter 2 Animals Section 8-2001 through Section 6-2010.
   (14)   Part 8, Chapter 3 Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
Section 8-3001 through Section 6-3015.
   (15)   Part 8, Chapter 4 Weeds and Vegetation Section 8-4001 through Section
8-4006.
   (16)   Part 8, Chapter 6 Other General Nuisances Section 8-6001 through
Section 8-6017.
   (17)   Part 9, Chapter 7 Signs Section 9-7001 through Section 9-7013.
(Ord. of 6/11/13)
Ordinance Disposition
CODE OF 1963
CHAPTER DISPOSITION
CHAPTER                                               DISPOSITION
1.   General Provisions                            S. by Pt. 1, Ch. 1
2.   Administration
   Art. I. In General                              Sec.
                                                      2-1011 et seq.
   Art. II. Board Meetings                         Sec.
                                                      2-1011 et seq.
                                                      Sec.
   Art. III. Town Clerk                            2-2002,
                                                      2-2003 
                                                      Sec.
   Art. IV. Town Attorney                          2-2004,
                                                      2-2005
                                                      Sec.
   Art. V. Town Treasurer                          2-2006,
                                                      2-2007,
                                                      2-2008
   Art. VI. Planning Board                         Sec.
                                                      2-7021 et seq.
   Art. VII. Employees Retirement Fund             Sec.
                                                      2-5001 et seq.
3.   Animals and Fowl                              Sec.
                                                      8-2001 et seq.
4.   Billiard Halls
                                                      Sec.
   Art. I. In General                              6-1041 through
                                                      6-1043
                                                      Sec.
   Art. II. License                                6-1044 through
                                                      6-1055
5.   Buildings                                     S. by Sec.
                                                      9-1001 et seq.
6.   Buildings (Dwellings) Unfit for Human HabitatiSec.
                                                      9-1021 et seq.
6A.   Civil Defense and Civil Disorders            Pt. 3, Ch. 3
   Art. I. Civil Disorders                         Pt. 3, Ch. 3
7.   Construction of Public Improvements
                                                      Sec.
   Art. I. In General                              4-1001 through
                                                      4-1006
   Art. II. Specific Improvements                  Sec. 41007, 41008
8.   Fire Prevention and Protection                Pt. 3, Ch. 2
9.   Garbage and Refuse                            Pt. 4, Ch. 2
10.   (Reserved)                                   N/A
11.   Licenses                                     Pt. 2, Ch. 4, Art. B
                                                      Sec.
12.   Miscellaneous Offenses and Provisions        8-6001 et seq.; Sec.
                                                      8-1006
13.   Motor Vehicles and Traffic
   Sec. 13-6 through 13-3                          S. by Pt. 7, Except:
   Miscellaneous Driving Rules                     Sec.
                                                      7-1091 et seq.
   Sec. 13-33 Horns in quiet zones                 Sec.
                                                      7-1099
   Sec. 13-75 Angle parking of trucks              Sec.
                                                      7-1100
   Sec. 13-76 Backing to curb                      Sec.
                                                      7-1101
   Sec. 13-41 Unnecessary spinning of tires        Sec.
                                                      7-1102
   Sec. 13-44 Wood truck lane                      Sec.
                                                      7-1103
14.   Parks and Recreation                         N/A
   Art. I. In General (Reserved)                   N/A
   Art. II. Recreation Commission                  Ch. 7, Art. A
15.   Streets and Sidewalks
                                                      Sec.
   Art. I, In General                              6-2001 through
                                                      6-2009
                                                      Sec.
   Art. II. Excavations and Similar Work           4-1021 through
                                                      4-1028
16.   Taxicabs                                     Pt. 6, Ch. 1, Art. A
                                                      Sec.
   Art. I. In General                              6-1001 through
                                                      6-1007
                                                      Sec.
   Art. II. Certificate of Convenience and Necessit6-1008 through
                                                      6-1016
                                                      Sec.
   Art. III. Driver's Permit                       6-1017 through
                                                      6-1024
17.   (Reserved)                                   N/A
18.   Water and Sewers                             S. by Pt. 5, Except:
   Sec.                                            Sec.
8-6014 Trespass or Watershed                          8-6014
19.   Zoning                                       Part 9, Ch. 4
 
TABLE OF NEW ORDINANCES
SUBJECT
SUBJECT
Adopting Ordinance                      Page v, vi
Ordinances                              Pt. 2, Ch. 1, Art. Ch. 1, Art. C
Town Manager                            Sec.
                                        2-2001
Purchasing                              Sec.
                                        2-4001
Personnel Administration                Pt. 2, Ch. 6
Police Department                       Pt. 3, Ch. 1, Art. A
Auxiliary Police                        Pt. 3, Ch. 1, Art. B
Fire Department                         Pt. 3, Ch. 2, Art. A
Water System                            Pt. 5, Ch. 1, Art. A
Sewer System                            Pt. 5, Ch. 2, Art. A
Water and Sewer Extensions              Pt. 5, Ch. 3
Peddling and Soliciting                 Pt. 6, Ch. 1, Art. D
Street and Sidewalk Use and Cleanliness Pt. 6, Ch. 2, Art. B
Parades and Demonstrations              Pt. 6, Ch. 2, Art. C
Traffic                                 Pt. 7
Disorderly Conduct                      Pt. 8, Ch. 1, Art. A
Abandoned Vehicles                      Pt. 8, Ch. 3
Weeds and Vegetation                    Pt. 8, Ch. 4
General Health Regulations              Pt. 8, Ch. 5
Building Regulations                    Pt. 9, Ch. 1
Minimum Housing Standards               Pt. 9, Ch. 2
Subdivision Regulations                 Pt. 9, Ch. 3
Zoning Pt. 9, Ch. 4
Flood Hazard Areas                      Pt. 9, Ch. 5
 
ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE
NC - Not codified
R - Repealed
S - Superseded
et seq. - And the sections which follow
Date Subject Location
Date     Subject                               Location
1/1/76   Retirement Fund                       2-5002
12/27/77 Annexation                            NC
12/27/77 Insulation Contractors                Pt. 9, Ch. 1, Art. 3
2/28/78  Coin-operated games                   6-1081
2/28/78  Commercial recreation centers         9-4005,
                                               9-4024
5/9/78   Mayor and Board of Aldermen           2-1017
7/1/78   Manager’s Compensation              NC
10/10/78 Traffic                               App. I, Sec. 102
11/6/78  Water Usage Restrictions              R
11/14/78 Water Usage Restrictions              R
11/28/78 Water Usage Restrictions              R
11/30/78 Water Usage Restrictions              NC (Repeals above three
                                               ordinances)
12/12/78 Code Adopting Ordinance               Page v.
3/27/79  Zoning                                9-4093
4/24/79  Parking                               App. I, Sec. 106
2/26/80  Animals                               S
6/24/80  Mobile Homes                          9-4005,
                                               9-4023
9/9/80   Housing Authority                     2-7603 (Repeals)
12/9/80  Dirt and Debris on Streets            6-2019
1/13/81  Board of Aldermen                     2-1011
2/24/81  Speed Limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
2/24/81  Speed Limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
4/14/81  Billiard Halls                        6-1042,
                                               6-1046
9/22/81  Obstructing Water Flow                8-6016
10/13/81 Parking Violations                    7-1191
3/9/82   Weeds                                 8-6015
6/8/82   Parking                               App. I, Sec. 106
7/1/82   Retirement Plan                       2-5006 (Editorial Note)
8/10/82  Parking                               App. I, Sec. 106
8/10/82  Parking                               7-1160
/ /      Speed Limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
9/14/82  Beautification Commission             2-7052
        (Repealed by Ord. of 4/26/94)
9/28/82  Game Rooms                            6-1081 -
                                               6-1089
5/24/83  Public Hearings                       9-4131
1/10/84  Tattooing                             6-1111
7/10/84  Signs                                 9-4005,
                                               9-4079
2/12/85  Retired Employee Health Benefits      2-6062
/ /      Reward for Information                8-1006
5/28/85  Speed Limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
6/11/85  Parking                               App. I, Sec. 106
6/11/85  Truck Parking                         App. I, Sec. 107
9/24/85  Residency Requirement for Chief of    3-1003
         Police
9/24/85  Residency Requirement for Fire Chief  3-2002
1/14/86  Retirement Plan                       2-5006 (Editorial Note)
1/14/86  Garbage Receptacles                   4-2005
1/14/86  Reserved Parking Spaces               7-1188
3/25/86  Speed Limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
3/25/86  Canton Town Code                      O-6
3/25/86  Zoning annexed property               App. II
3/25/86  Rezoning                              App. II
4/8/86   Nuisances                             8-6015
4/22/86  Political signs                       8-6017
4/22/86  Street numbers on buildings           9-1100
6/10/86  Revenue                               NC
6/24/86  Rezoning                              App. II
6/24/86  Rezoning                              App. II
8/12/86  Sanitary landfill use                 4-4001
8/26/86  Sanitary landfill use                 4-4001
9/23/86  Parking violation penalties           7-1191
10/28/86 Retired employee life insurance       2-6062(c)
1/13/87  Rezoning                              App. II
5/26/87  Flood damage prevention               9-5001 -
                                               9-5002
8/25/87  Flood damage prevention               9-5042
8/25/87  Implementing fees for solid waste     4-4002
         disposal
9/15/87  Establishing ETJ-Rough Creek          9-6001
         Watershed
                                               9-4003,
                                               9-4004,
                                               9-4011,
                                               9-4021,
9/15/87  Zoning amendments per watershed       9-4022,
         annexation                            9-4023,
                                               9-4031,
                                               9-4111,
                                               9-4112,
                                               9-4131
                                               2-7021,
9/15/87  Planning Board                        2-7023,
                                               2-7024
9/15/87  Subdivision regulations               9-3003
1/26/88  Electrical fees                       9-1049
1/26/88  Personnel requirements                2-6022
1/26/88  Inspection department                 9-1022,
                                               9-1028
6/14/88  C-3 Neighborhood Business District    9-4026
6/14/88  Tow-away parking                      App. I, Sec. 108
10/11/88 Tow-away parking                      App. I, Sec. 108
12/20/88 Tires at Canton Landfill              NC
1/9/89   Parking; when nuisance                7-1161
2/ /89   Overtime payment                      2-6054
2/14/89  Personnel policies                    2-6013,
                                               2-6014
2/28/89  Tires at Canton Landfill              4-4003
6/13/89  Employees Retirement Fund             2-5007
7/11/89  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
10/10/89 Capital Reserve Fund                  4-4004
10/10/89 Health care benefits                  2-6068
10/10/89 Life insurance benefits               2-6068
12/19/89 Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
1/23/90  Historical Commission membership      2-7064
4/10/90  Parking violations                    7-1191
6/12/90  Zoning annexed property               App. II
6/26/90  Sanitary landfill rates               4-4002
6/26/90  Building permits                      9-1049
9/24/91  Tractor trailer trucks on certain     App. I, Sec. 109
         streets
9/25/90  Rezoning                              App. II
3/20/91  Hours for athletic events or contests 4-5001
4/1/91   Health care benefits                  2-6068
4/1/91   Life insurance benefits               2-6068
2/25/92  Noise                                 8-6009,
                                               8-6019
6/9/92   Newspaper stands prohibited           6-2020
         Garbage and refuse collection and     4-2002,
6/30/92  disposal                              4-2004,
                                               4-2005
7/29/92  Fees for solid waste disposal         4-4002(b)
8/11/92  Parades and demonstrations            6-2025
11/10/92 Prohibited parking                    App. I
1/26/93  Advisory Community Appearance         2-7071 -
         Commission                            2-7077
1/29/93  I-2 heavy industrial district         9-4029
2/23/93  Building code adopted                 9-1002
5/11/93  Amending town employees’ retirement 2-5006
         plan
5/11/93  Flood damage prevention               Ch. 9-5
7/28/93  Pets in park areas                    8-2011
7/28/93  Tractor and trailer operation on town App. I, Sec. 109
         streets
8/10/93  Labor Day Commission                  Ch. 2-7
9/14/93  Extraterritorial jurisdiction         9-6002
         established
                                               2-7021,
                                               2-7024,
                                               9-3003,
                                               9-3005,
         Amending members on boards, due to    9-3022,
9/14/93  watershed protection district         9-3023,
         ordinance                             9-3032,
                                               9-3043,
                                               9-4011,
                                               9-4111,
                                               9-4112
11/23/93 Amending town employees’ retirement 2-5006
         plan
1/25/94  Regulating newspaper stands           6-2020
         Dry cleaning and laundry
2/8/94   establishments in Central Business    9-4024
         District
2/8/94   Adopting Ordinance                    Adopting
3/22/94  Committees dissolved                  Ch. 2-7
4/12/94  Repealing speed limit                 App. I, Sec. 105
4/26/94  Repealing Sections 2-7051 through 2-  2-7051 - 2-7057
         7057
         Amending the C-A Pigeon River
5/10/94  Critical Area Watershed Protection    9-4032
         district
         Amending regulations for manufactured 9-4004,
7/26/94  housing                               9-4023,
                                               9-4033
8/9/94   Adopting Ordinance                    Adopting
1/10/95  Parking                               App. I, Sec. 106
3/14/95  Parking                               App. I, Sec. 106
6/6/95   Adopting Ordinance                    Adopting
7/11/95  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
8/22/95  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
8/22/95  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
8/22/95  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
8/22/95  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
9/26/95  Parking vehicles in residential       9-4056
         districts
9/26/95  Amending zoning definitions           9-4004
2/27/96  Amending Labor Day Commission         2-7068
3/6/96   Community Appearance Commission       2-7071,
                                               2-7072
3/29/96  Weapons control                       8-8001 -
                                               8-8004
4/9/96   Parking zones                         7-1192 -
                                               7-2000
5/28/96  Zoning annexed property               App. II
5/28/96  Annexing property                     NC
6/11/96  Hudson Park Project Ordinance         NC
6/11/96  Amending parking or storage of        7-1161
         certain vehicles in residential areas
6/11/96  Amending parking vehicles in          9-4056
         residential districts
6/25/96  1996-97 Budget Ordinance              NC
7/25/96  Tax shelter of employees’           2-5005
         contributions
9/10/96  New service connections outside the   5-1011
         corporate limits
10/22/96 Grass cuttings on public streets      8-4006
10/22/96 Amending street numbers               9-1100
3/24/98  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
4/14/98  Extraterritorial jurisdiction         9-6003
4/14/98  Zoning annexed property               App. II
4/14/98  Zoning annexed property               App. II
5/12/98  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
2/23/99  Rezoning                              App. II
2/23/99  Rezoning                              App. II
6/22/99  Parking violations                    7-1191
6/22/99  Zoning annexed property               App. II
7/27/99  Littering prohibited                  6-2011
8/24/99  Definitions; wireless communication   9-4004,
         facilities                            9-4048
9/14/99  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
9/14/99  Sexually oriented businesses          8-8001 -
                                               8-8024
10/12/99 Zoning annexed property               App. II
1/11/00  Adopting Ordinance                    Adopting
3/28/00  Zoning annexed property               App. II
5/9/00   Zoning annexed property               App. II
6/16/00  Zoning annexed property               App. II
8/22/00  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
/ /      Policy statement concerning Building  9-2012
         Inspector
9/12/00  Zoning annexed property               App. II
10/10/00 Adopting Ordinance                    Adopting
10/10/00 Grease traps for commercial           5-2007
         establishments
11/14/00 No right turn Church to Main three or App. I, Sec. 109
         more axles
11/28/00 Ballew Street one way                 App. I, Sec. 110
1/23/01  Zoning annexed property               App. II
2/13/01  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
3/13/01  Zoning annexed property               App. II
         Sewer extension and use, water        5-1011,
3/27/01  conservation                          5-1012,
                                               5-1013
7/10/01  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
9/11/01  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
9/25/01  Abandoned vehicles                    8-3001 -
                                               8-3015
9/25/01  Amending business district use        9-4024 -
         provisions                            4-4026
9/25/01  Amending zoning definitions           9-4004
10/23/01 Water rates                           5-1006
10/23/01 Zoning annexed property               App. II
11/5/01  Tax on lease or rental of motor       2-4051 -
         vehicles                              2-4054
6/25/02  Privilege license taxes               2-4011 -
                                               2-4044
7/9/02   Disposal of personal property         2-4061
7/9/02   Historical Commission                 2-7064
7/9/02   Solid waste disposal billing          4-2009
         provisions
10/22/02 Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
11/12/02 Zoning annexed property               App. II
1/14/03  Dogs running at large prohibited      8-2005
                                               9-4027 -
                                               9-4029,
9/14/04  Sign regulations                      9-4031,
                                               9-4032,
                                               9-4079
3/8/05   Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
3/22/05  Zoning annexed property               App. II
5/10/05  Registered sex offenders              8-10001,
                                               8-10002
                                               8-4003 -
5/24/05  Weeds and vegetation                  8-4005,
                                               8-6015
9/27/05  Garbage and refuse collection and     4-2010,
         disposal                              4-2011
4/24/07  Permitted uses, heavy industrial      9-4029
         district
7/17/07  Massage therapy regulations           6-1091 -
                                               6-1104
8/28/07  Prohibited parking                    App. I, Div. II, Sec. 106
9/11/07  Yard sales, garage sales, and the     6-2040 -
         like                                  6-2043
2/26/08  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
4/8/08   No turn on red                        App. I, Sec. 102
10/28/08 Parking trailers, RVs or boats on     7-1160
         streets
10/28/08 Water and/or sewer service extension  5-3007
         policy
6/23/09  Sidewalk displays                     6-2003,
                                               6-2004
10/27/09 Sign regulations                      9-7001 -
                                               9-7013
                                               2-4044,
                                               6-1116 -
1/12/10  Internet access/sweepstakes providers 6-1119,
                                               9-4004,
                                               9-4024 -
                                               9-4027
5/25/10  Prohibited parking                    App. I, Sec. 106
7/13/10  Skateboarding                         8-6018
7/27/10  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
11/23/10 Prohibited parking                    App. I, Sec. 106
3/8/11   Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
6/28/11  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
6/28/11  Speed limits                          App. I, Sec. 105
7/12/11  Annexation                            NC
                                               9-4004,
9/27/11  Flea markets                          9-4027 -
                                               9-4029,
                                               9-4057
2/27/12  Prohibited parking                    App. I, Sec. 106
                                               9-5001 -
                                               9-5004,
                                               9-5015,
                                               9-5025 -
                                               9-5032,
2/28/12  Flood damage prevention               9-5045 -
                                               9-5049,
                                               9-5060 -
                                               9-5065,
                                               9-5075,
                                               9-5076
5/22/12  Taxable business                      2-4044
5/22/12  Intent to amend Charter               NC
                                               6-1111,
11/27/12 Tattooing                             9-4024,
                                               9-4025
1/22/13  Central Business District             9-4024
6/11/13  Civil penalties                       App. III, Sec. 101
8/27/13  Election and terms of Mayor and       Charter Ch. 2,
         Aldermen                              Sec. 2-2
10/22/13 Use requirements; General Residential 9-4023
         District
5/8/14   Pets in Recreation Park prohibited    8-2011
7/10/14  Special events; assembly on streets   6-2002
         and sidewalks
7/24/14  Camp Hope Commission                  2-7081 -
                                               2-7090
8/14/14  Sidewalks; parade or picketing hours  6-2023
8/14/14  Alcoholic beverages; public           8-1001
         consumption
8/14/14  Tobacco use prohibited on Town        8-11001 -
         property                              8-11014
1/22/15  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
3/26/15  Mobile food commissaries              9-4024 -
                                               9-4029
                                               8-2001 -
5/14/15  Replacing Animals chapter; noise      8-2011,
                                               8-6019
8/27/15  Vacant and occupied commercial        9-1200 -
         properties                            9-1221
                                               9-4004,
12/10/15 Child care centers                    9-4023,
                                               9-4025,
                                               9-4026
1/28/16  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
1/28/16  Prohibited parking                    App. I, Sec. 106
3/24/16  Prohibited parking                    App. I, Sec. 106
4/7/16   Reimbursement agreements              5-4001 -
                                               5-4005
11/10/16 Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
12/8/16  Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
2/9/17   Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
2/12/17  Compression release engine brakes     7-1001,
                                               7-1103
10/26/17 Sunday hours for beer and wine sales  6-1071
9/27/18  Special requirements for mobile food  9-4024 -
         units                                 9-4029
6/25/19  Billiard hall regulations          6-1042,
                                               6-1049
8/8/19   Billiard hall regulations             6-1041 -
                                               6-1055
                                               9-4001,
12/10/20 Zoning regulations                    9-4004,
                                               9-4023 -
                                               9-4029
                                               2-7021 - 2-7041, 9-3001 - 9-
                                               3005, 9-3011 - 9-3016, 9-3021 -
                                               9-3023,
                                               9-3031,
                                               9-3032,
                                               9-3041 -
                                               9-3043,
                                               9-3051 -
                                               9-3053,
                                               9-3061 -
                                               9-3064,
                                               9-4001 -
                                               9-4008,
                                               9-4011 -
                                               9-4014,
6/24/21  Planning Board and development        9-4021 -
         regulations                           9-4033,
                                               9-4041,
                                               9-4050 -
                                               9-4057,
                                               9-4061 -
                                               9-4063,
                                               9-4071 -
                                               9-4082,
                                               9-4091 -
                                               9-4099,
                                               9-4111 -
                                               9-4117,
                                               9-4131 -
                                               9-4133,
                                               9-4140 -
                                               9-4146
10/14/21 Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
                                               9-3001 -
7/28/22  Subdivision regulations               9-3037,
                                               App. A
                                               9-4044,
7/28/22  Amending single-family dwellings      9-4022,
                                               9-4023,
                                               9-4041
3/23/23  Annexing property                     NC
4/27/23  Parking in front of mailboxes         7-1151
7/13/23  Moratorium on development approvals   NC
2/8/24   Speed limit                           App. I, Sec. 105
3/28/24  Living in tents, RVs, boats, storage  8-6020
         buildings etc.
3/28/24  Technical codes adopted by reference, 3-2009
         fire dept.
                                              
 
