TOWN OF CAROLINA SHORES, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-7, passed 7-14-2025; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2024 Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Ch. I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   
1.1.   Incorporation and corporate powers
Ch. II. Corporate Boundaries
   
2.1.   Town boundaries
Ch. III. Governing Body
   
3.1.   Structure of governing body; number of members
   
3.2.   Manner of electing Board
   
3.3.   Term of office and Board members
   
3.4.   Selection of Mayor; Term of office
Ch. IV. Elections
   
4.1.   Conduct of Town elections
Ch. V. Administration
   
5.1.   Mayor-Council Form of Government
Ch. VI. Planning
   
6.1.   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
6.2.   Applicability of Calabash Planning Ordinances
Editorial Notes:
   This charter was laid out in Session Law 1998-75 (House Bill 860) and
amended by Session Law 2003-78 (House Bill 742). Additional local amendments
are noted in the legislative histories following specific section.
   Section 3.4 of the charter was subsequently amended by Session Law 2021-139
(House Bill 229).    
   A Charter for the Town of Carolina Shores is enacted to read:
   CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF CAROLINA SHORES.
CHAPTER I.
INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
Sec. 1.1. Incorporation and Corporate Powers.
   The inhabitants of the Town of Carolina Shores are a body corporate and
politic under the name Town of Carolina Shores’. Under that name they have all
the powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities conferred and imposed
upon cities by the general law of North Carolina.
CHAPTER II.
CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
Sec. 2.1. Town Boundaries.
   Until modified in accordance with law, the boundaries of the Town of
Carolina Shores are those annexed to the Town of Calabash by Section 1 of
Chapter 593 of the Session Laws of 1989.
CHAPTER III.
GOVERNING BODY.
Sec. 3.1. Structure of Governing Body; Number of Members.
   The governing body of the Town of Carolina Shores is the Town Board of
Commissioners and the Mayor. The Town Board of Commissioners has five members.
Sec. 3.2. Manner of Electing Board.
   The qualified voters of the entire Town elected all of the members of the
Board of Commissioners and Mayor.
(Ord. 05-06-08, passed 5-6-2008)
Sec. 3.3. Term of Office of Board Members.
   (A)   Alden Craft, George Dale, John Elliott, Robert Lovaty, and Edwin
Mugridge are appointed as members of the Board of Commissioners to serve until
the organizational meeting after the 1999 municipal election.
   (B)   The Town will continue to be operated by a five (5) member Board of
Commissioners with one Mayor. In 2009 the two (2) persons receiving the most
votes will continue to be as written "at large" for a four (4) year term.
Beginning in 2012 the three (3) receiving the highest votes will be appointed
to four (4) year terms from the entire "at large" of the Town of Carolina
Shores. The Mayor will be appointed by the highest vote received in the
election for the Mayor appointment and will serve a four (4) year term in
office. All parties are nonpartisan and this will constitute fair and equal
election process in the Town of Carolina Shores.
(Ord. 05-06-08, passed 5-6-2008)
Sec. 3.4. Selection of Mayor; Term of Office.
   The qualified voters of the entire Town elect the Mayor to serve a four-year
term.
(Ord. 19-6, passed 12-6-2018)
CHAPTER IV.
ELECTIONS.
Sec. 4.1. Conduct of Town Elections.
   The Town Board of Commissioners shall be elected on a nonpartisan basis and
the results determined by the plurality method as provided by G.S. 163-292.
CHAPTER V.
ADMINISTRATION.
Sec. 5.1. Mayor-Council Form of Government
   The Town of Carolina Shores operates under the Mayor-Council form of
government as provided by Part 3 of Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General
Statutes.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2009)
CHAPTER VI.
PLANNING.
Sec. 6.1. Extraterritorial Jurisdiction.
   The area to the north of North Carolina Highway 179 and Thomasboro Road
which was within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Calabash
under Article 19 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes and which is not in
the Town limits of the Town of Calabash is placed within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Town of Carolina Shores under Article 19 of Chapter 160A of
the General Statutes upon the adoption of a zoning ordinance by the Town of
Carolina Shores.
Sec. 6.2. Applicability of Calabash Planning Ordinances.
   Any regulations and powers of enforcement of the Town of Calabash under
Article 19 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes shall remain in effect
within the Town of Carolina Shores until the earlier of: (i) the Town of
Carolina Shores adopting such regulations, or (ii) 60 days after the
incorporation is effective. During this period the Town of Carolina Shores may
hold hearings and take any other measures that may be required in order to
adopt its regulations for the area under that Article."
[EFFECTIVE DATE.]
   This act is effective when it becomes law.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short title
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Section headings
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Repeal, expiration, revival of ordinances
   
10.07   Altering code
   
10.08   Use of code and penalties
   
10.09   Removal and ban policy
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The provisions of the following chapters and sections shall constitute and
be designated “The Code of Ordinances of the Town of Carolina Shores,” and may
be so cited. The code may also be cited as “Carolina Shores Town Code.”
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing with approved
surety shall be sufficient.
   COUNTY. Brunswick County, State of North Carolina.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes any person, firm, association, corporation,
club and partnership, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or
employee.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED
shall be equivalent to the words SWEAR and SWORN.
   OFFICIALS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS. Whenever reference is made to OFFICIALS,
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS by title only, they shall be deemed to refer to the
officials, boards and commissions of the Town of Carolina Shores.
   OR and AND. OR may be read AND, and AND may be read OR if the sense requires
it.
   OWNER. When applied to buildings or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or part of the building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real property
as defined below.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before and next after respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation
and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of
returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place
where the person sleeps shall be deemed his or her residence.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway, and
includes the use of the entire width of the land between the property lines so
dedicated to public use.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   STREET. Includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, alley, lane, path, viaduct, bridge or other public place and the
approaches thereto within the town when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public and established for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of the building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TOWN. The Town of Carolina Shores in the County of Brunswick, State of North
Carolina unless otherwise provided.
   TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or BOARD. The Board of Commissioners for the
Town of Carolina Shores.
   TOWN LIMITS. The corporate limits of the Town of Carolina Shores.
   VEHICLES. Every wagon, hack, coach, carriage, omnibus, pushcart, bicycle,
tricycle, motorcycle, automobile, streetcar, sleigh or sled, or other
conveyance, except baby carriages or invalid chairs, in whatever manner or by
whatever force they may be driven, ridden or propelled, which is or may be used
or adapted for pleasure riding, for the transportation of passengers, baggage,
merchandise or freight on any street, and every draft or riding animal, whether
driven, ridden or led. An animal attached to any vehicle with the vehicle
constitute one VEHICLE.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. Includes printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Timeliness. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is
a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   (B)   Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and neuter.
   (C)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
   (D)   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular number.
   (E)   Plural, singular. Words importing the singular shall include the
plural, and words importing the plural shall include the singular.
   (F)   Statute references. The reference “G.S.” shall be construed to refer
to the General Statutes of North Carolina.
   (G)   Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and the present.
   (H)   Title of office. The title of any office shall be construed to include
the words, “of the Town of Carolina Shores, North Carolina.”
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 10.04 SECTION HEADINGS.
   The headings of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of the sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections,
including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Commissioners that
the sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable. If any phrase, clause, sentence, division or section of this code
shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court
of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code,
since it would have been enacted by the Board of Commissioners without the
incorporation in this code of the unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence,
division or section.
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 10.06 REPEAL, EXPIRATION, REVIVAL OF ORDINANCES.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provisions
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired. When an ordinance which repealed
another shall itself be repealed, the previous ordinance shall not be revived
without express words to that effect.
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 10.07 ALTERING CODE.
   This code may only be changed or amended in any manner, whatsoever, by the
Board of Commissioners in the manner proscribed in G.S. § 160A-75.
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 10.08 USE OF CODE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Penalties for violations. Any person determined to be in violation of
any of the provisions of the chapters and/or appendices identified in division
(E) below may receive a civil citation for a penalty of $100 for such
violation. No penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in
violation has been notified in writing of the violation by a town employee
having jurisdiction over the violation; provided however, that notification as
a prerequisite to the issuance of civil citations shall not apply to alleged
violations of Chapter 82. Said written notification shall be provided via hand-
delivery with a signed receipt acknowledging delivery or by certified mail with
a copy thereof also sent by regular mail. The provision of notice by mail shall
be deemed sufficient if the certified mail is unclaimed or refused and the
regular mail is not returned by the United States Postal Service within ten
days after the date on which it was mailed. If uncorrected after the
notification, the town employee who observed the violation shall issue a
citation requiring the violator to pay the above-stated penalty to the town.
The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or part thereof or any
person who participates in or acts in concert, assists, directs, creates or
maintains any condition found to be a violation shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies herein provided.
   (B)   Uncorrected violations. When the town employee finds that a previous
violation has not been corrected, he or she shall issue another citation
requiring payment of an additional civil penalty in the amount of $200. If
after the specified time period has expired and corrective action has not been
completed, each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense and the civil penalty shall, on the next day following the expiration
of the time within which to correct the violation, automatically activate in
the amount of $200 per day and shall continue to be accrued at the rate of $200
per day until the violation is corrected. Any enforcement action for injunctive
relief by the town shall not stay or abate the accruing of the civil penalty,
and the penalty shall continue to accrue daily until the violation is finally
corrected either voluntarily or by the town as a result of a court order.
   (C)   Failure to pay.
      (1)   If the civil penalty is not paid within ten days after demand for
payment by the town employee, the town may initiate a civil action in the
nature of a debt collection to recover civil penalties which may have
previously accrued. Such action shall stop further civil penalties from
accruing if the violation has been corrected.
      (2)   Civil penalties are an additional remedy for code enforcement. In
addition thereto, all remedies allowed in North Carolina General Statutes and
this code may also be pursued by the town at the same time without waiving the
civil penalties authorized in this chapter.
   (D)   Appeals of determination of violation. A person notified of a
violation may appeal such determination to the Town Administrator. Such appeal
must be filed with the town not later than ten days after the receipt of the
first notice issued. Failure to timely file an appeal shall constitute
acceptance of the determination that a violation exists. The fact that an
appeal is filed or pending under this chapter shall not prevent the town from
pursuing other enforcement remedies allowed by law.
   (E)   Applicable chapters and appendices. The following titles shall be
applicable to this chapter:
      (1)   Title II Government and Administration;
      (2)   Title III Public Safety;
      (3)   Title IV Public Works;
      (4)   Title V Municipal Utilities;
      (5)   Title VI Licensing and Regulation;
      (6)   Title VII Motor Vehicles and Traffic;
      (7)   Title VIII Offenses; and
      (8)   Title IX Planning and Regulation of Development.
   (F)   General penalty. In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, and unless this
code provides a different criminal penalty, violation of any provision hereof
shall be a misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction
by a fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. By
express statement, any section may be enforced by the ordering of appropriate
equitable remedy, including injunction, by the general court of justice. Each
day that any breach or violation of, or any failure to comply with, any
provision or requirement of any section or division of this code or any
ordinance of the town, continues or is allowed to continue, shall constitute,
and is hereby declared to be, a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 14-1, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 23-1, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 25-5,
passed 6-9-2025)
§ 10.09 REMOVAL AND BAN POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. In an effort to promote and maintain public safety, health,
and welfare, and pursuant to the powers and authority of the Board of
Commissioners, the following provisions address removing and prohibiting
persons from remaining on or entering upon town-owned property. Nothing in this
policy shall be construed to authorize the exclusion of any person lawfully
exercising their free speech rights or other rights protected by the state or
federal constitutions. However, a person engaged in such protected activity,
who also commits acts that are not protected and that violate applicable legal
authorities, shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Scope. This policy applies to all town-owned buildings and properties.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BAN or BANNING. Refers to prohibiting a person from remaining or entering
on town property and prohibiting them from returning to that property for a
specified period of time.
      REMOVAL or REMOVED. Refers to a person being removed from town property
for a specified period of time.
   (D)   Removals and bans.
      (1)   A person is subject to immediate removal and being banned from
town-owned buildings or properties, including town parks, if that person is
observed violating a town ordinance, regulation, rule, policy or state law, or
engaging in conduct that places other persons or properties in imminent threat
of danger or harm. Any such removal or ban need not be based upon a criminal
charge or conviction, and may be based upon the observations of a law
enforcement officer or upon the observations of a town employee in connection
with their duties.
      (2)   A person is also subject to removal and being banned from town-
owned buildings or properties, including town parks, if that person is
disrupting or disturbing a town-authorized function or recreational activity.
Removal may be based upon the observations of a town employee in connection
with their duties.
      (3)   A removal issued under this section shall not be for less than one
business day and not more than five business days.
      (4)   A ban issued under this section shall be for 30 calendar days. If
the person to be banned has been previously banned at any time within the two
years preceding the date of the present ban, then the ban shall be for 90
calendar days. If the person being banned has been banned on two or more
occasions within the two years preceding the date of the present ban, then the
ban shall be for 180 calendar days.
      (5)   At any time within the specified period of a ban, a person subject
to the ban may apply in writing to the Town Administrator for a temporary
waiver from the ban for good cause shown. In exercising discretion under this
provision, the Town Administrator shall consider the seriousness of the
violation that resulted in the ban, the particular needs upon which the
temporary waiver is based, and any other criteria the Town Administrator
determines to be relevant to the determination of whether or not to grant a
waiver. The decision of the Town Administrator to grant or deny a waiver, in
whole or in part, shall be in writing and shall constitute a final, non-
appealable decision.
      (6)   All ban orders shall: be written; state the basis for the order;
and include information on appealing the ban. The order shall be served upon
the person being banned by hand-delivery, the delivery being documented by the
person making the delivery, or mailed to the person by certified mail, with a
copy thereof also sent by regular mail. Service of the order by mail shall be
deemed sufficient if the certified mail is unclaimed or refused and the regular
mail is not returned by the United States Postal Service within ten days after
the date on which it was mailed.
      (7).   The ban order shall be filed with and maintained by the Town Code
Enforcement Officer.
      (8).   A ban shall remain in effect for the specified period unless it is
modified or reversed on appeal.
      (9)   A person subject to a removal or a ban who remains on or returns to
the subject town-owned properties without a temporary waiver may be prosecuted
for trespass in accordance with the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (E)   Appeal.
      (1)   A removal or ban order may be appealed by filing a written notice
of appeal within five business days after the date on which the order was
served. The notice of appeal shall be hand-delivered or mailed to the Town
Clerk’s office. Hand-delivered notices of appeal shall be deemed timely if
hand-delivered within the five-day period. To be deemed timely, mailed notices
of appeal shall be postmarked within the five-day period. The notice of appeal
shall include the appellate’s physical and electronic mail addresses that the
Clerk will rely upon in providing notice of the appeal hearing.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall arrange for a hearing on the appeal by the
Town Board of Commissioners, the hearing to be held within ten business days
after the date on which the Clerk received the notice of appeal. The Town Clerk
shall provide the appellate, by regular and/or electronic mail, with a written
notice of hearing no less than five business days before the date of the
hearing.
      (3)   The appeal shall be heard and decided upon during open session. The
Board of Commissioners shall consider evidence that is material and relevant to
whether the order complies with the provisions of this section or other
applicable law. The Board is not precluded from relying on evidence that would
not be admissible under the North Carolina Rules of Evidence, if the evidence
appears to be
sufficiently trustworthy and was admitted under such circumstances that it was
reasonable for the Board to rely upon it.
      (4)   When hearing an appeal, the Board of Commissioners may, by a
majority vote, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order and
shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be
made. A written decision of the Board’s ruling shall be issued within ten
business days after the date of the hearing. The Board’s decision is final.
(Ord. 25-5, passed 6-9-2025)
TITLE II: GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
20.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
      
21.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
22.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 20: TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
20.01   Governing body
   
20.02   Powers and duties of governing body
   
20.03   Mayor
   
20.04   Mayor Pro Tem
   
20.05—20.09   Reserved
Meetings and Procedures
   
20.10   Regular meetings, time and place
   
20.11   Special meetings
   
20.12   Adjourned meetings
   
20.13   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
20.14   Committees
   
20.15   Ballots
   
20.16   Interest of Commissioners and appointed committee members
   
20.17—20.19   Reserved
Ordinances
   
20.20   Procedure
   
20.21   Official copy
   
20.22   Amending or replacing current ordinance
   
20.23   Repeal or ordainment of parts of code
   
20.24   Ordinance book
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 20.01 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and Board of
Commissioners of five board members not counting the Mayor. The governing body
shall be charged with the general government and administration of the town.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be those set out in the
General Statutes, Town Charter and ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.03 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, as such shall
perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town’s business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Board;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Board;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the town,
as he or she deems necessary;
   (F)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
   (G)   Perform other duties as authorized by General Statutes, Town Charter
and this code.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.04 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At the first meeting after their election, the Board shall select one of
their members to act as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall have no fixed
term of office, but shall perform all the duties of the Mayor in the Mayor’s
absence or disability.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 20.05—20.09 RESERVED.
MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES
§ 20.10 REGULAR MEETINGS, TIME AND PLACE.
   The regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners shall be held at a time
and place as set forth by the Board annually at the time the Board’s calendar
is adopted.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.11 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board of Commissioners may be called by the Mayor,
Mayor Pro Tem or by any two members, and notice thereof shall be given as
provided by law.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.12 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any regular or special meeting of the Board of Commissioners and any
adjourned meeting thereof may adjourn to such time prior to the next regular
meeting date as may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners, and no special
notice shall be required for the adjourned meeting. Upon adjournment, the
motion to adjourn shall state the time and place the meeting will reconvene.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.13 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the procedure of
business of the Board of Commissioners and any committee appointed by the Board
of Commissioners shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.14 COMMITTEES.
   The Board of Commissioners may appoint committees of its own members, and
others as the circumstances indicate, for special purpose study and
recommendation. Such committees shall not have authority to take official
action unless specifically designated by Board in the appointing or subsequent
motion. For the formation of any committee, written bylaws shall be established
via resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.15 BALLOTS.
   All elections by the Board of Commissioners shall be by ballot and a
majority of the votes of all members present shall be necessary for an
election; provided, this requirement of voting by ballot may be suspended by a
majority vote of the Board members.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.16 INTEREST OF COMMISSIONERS AND APPOINTED COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
   No member of the Board of Commissioners or any member of any committee
appointed by the Board of Commissioners shall have a pecuniary interest,
directly or indirectly, in any contract made or entered into by the Board, nor
in any matter where the rights or liabilities of the town are, or may be,
involved.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.17—20.19 RESERVED.
ORDINANCES
§ 20.20 PROCEDURE.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance, and every new ordinance
shall be proposed in writing.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.21 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board of
Commissioners, signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Clerk, shall be
known as an official copy of any ordinance of the town. All ordinances or a
true copy thereof shall be reprinted and inserted in this code.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.22 AMENDING OR REPLACING CURRENT ORDINANCE.
   (A)   An ordinance proposed to add to or replace provisions of a current
ordinance of the town shall set out: the words, section or sections proposed to
be stricken out and those to be inserted in; and the paragraph as it would
stand if so amended, if necessary to a clear understanding of the amendment.
   (B)   The title of the new ordinance shall contain the entire title of the
ordinance amended thereby.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.23 REPEAL OR ORDAINMENT OF PARTS OF CODE.
   Whenever a chapter, article or section of this code is repealed, the Clerk
shall make a notation of the repeal. Whenever a new chapter, article or section
of this code is ordained, the Clerk shall make a notation of the new ordinance.
After the enactment of all ordinances, the ordinances shall be printed in the
format of this code and inserted in the appropriate places herein.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 20.24 ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The Clerk shall maintain a file or book entitled “ordinance book,” separate
and apart from the minute book, in which ordinances shall be kept until that
time as they are printed and inserted in this code.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 21: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
21.01   Power of the Board
   
21.02   Consolidation or expansion of offices
   
21.03   Interest of town officers
   
21.04—21.09   Reserved
Organization of Town Offices
   
21.10   Town organization
   
21.11—21.19   Reserved
Officers of the Town
   
21.20   Town Administrator
   
21.21   Town Attorney
   
21.22   Town Clerk
   
21.23   Finance Director
   
21.24   Tax Collector
   
21.25   Law enforcement officers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 21.01 POWER OF THE BOARD.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to generally organize
and supervise the employees of the town including all necessary and incumbent
powers authorized by law. All employees appointed by the Board of Commissioners
shall hold their office at the pleasure of the Board.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.02 CONSOLIDATION OR EXPANSION OF OFFICES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board of Commissioners may
consolidate any two or more offices and assign the duties of any such offices
to one or more persons. Consistent with applicable state laws, the Board of
Commissioners may establish other positions, provide for the appointment of
other administrative officers and employees, and generally organize the town
government in order to promote the orderly and efficient administration of the
affairs of the town.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.03 INTEREST OF TOWN OFFICERS.
   No employee of the town shall have a pecuniary interest, directly or
indirectly, in any contract made or entered into by the town.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.04—21.09 RESERVED.
ORGANIZATION OF TOWN OFFICES
§ 21.10 TOWN ORGANIZATION.
   The Town Administrator shall administer the functions and activities of the
town through the following departments:
   (A)   Administration Department;
   (B)   Finance Department;
   (C)   Public Works Department; and
   (D)   Public Safety Department.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.11—21.19 RESERVED.
OFFICERS OF THE TOWN
§ 21.20 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Administrator who
shall be the head of the administrative branch of town government, and who
shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners for the proper
administration of the affairs of the town. The Administrator shall be appointed
on the basis of merit only, and he or she shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   In exercising his or her duties as chief administrator, the
Administrator shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   The Town Administrator shall recommend to the Board of
Commissioners the appointment and suspension or removal of all town employees
whose appointment or removal is not otherwise provided for by law, in
accordance with such general personnel rules, regulations, policies or
ordinances as the Board of Commissioners may adopt;
      (2)   The Town Administrator shall direct and supervise the
administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the town, subject to
the general direction and control of the Board of Commissioners, except as
otherwise provided by law;
      (3)   The Town Administrator shall attend all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners, unless otherwise directed by the Board, and recommend any
measures that he or she deems expedient;
      (4)   The Town Administrator shall see that all laws of the state, the
Town Charter and the ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Board of
Commissioners are faithfully executed within the town;
      (5)   The Town Administrator shall prepare and submit the annual budget
and capital program of the town;
      (6)   The Town Administrator shall report on the finances and
administrative activities of the town as of the end of the fiscal year;
      (7)   The Town Administrator shall make any other reports that the Board
of Commissioners may require concerning the operations of the town departments,
offices and agencies subject to his or her direction and control;
      (8)   The Town Administrator shall, in cases whereby an appointed office
is left vacant or a position is left unfilled or the holder of such a position
is otherwise incapacitated, act as the acting officer until such time as
relieved by appointment or return to capacity of the incumbent officer; and
      (9)   The Town Administrator shall perform any other duties that may be
required and authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.21 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Attorney who shall be a
resident of North Carolina and licensed to engage in the practice of law in the
state. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to prosecute and defend suits
against the town; to advise the Mayor, Board of Commissioners and other town
officials with respect to the affairs of the town; to draft all substantial
legal documents relating to the affairs of the town; to inspect and pass upon
all substantial agreements, contracts, franchises and other instruments with
which the town may be concerned; to attend meetings of the Board of
Commissioners when so called upon; and to perform other duties required by law
or as the Board of Commissioners may direct. The Board of Commissioners may
employ other legal counsel from time to time, in addition to the Town Attorney,
as may be necessary to handle adequately the legal affairs of the town.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.22 TOWN CLERK.
   The Board of Commissioners shall provide for the appointment of a Town Clerk
to keep a journal of the proceedings of the Board of Commissioners, to maintain
in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the
town, and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the
Board of Commissioners may direct.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.23 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Board of Commissioners shall provide for the appointment of a Finance
Director to perform the duties of the finance officer as required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.24 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Board of Commissioners shall provide for the appointment of a Tax
Collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other revenues accruing to
the town, subject to the General Statutes, the provisions of this Charter and
the ordinances of the town. The Tax Collector shall diligently comply with and
enforce all the laws of North Carolina relating to the collection of taxes and
other revenues by municipalities. Such appointment may, in cases deemed
appropriate by the Board, appoint another government entity to the position of
Tax Collector via inter-local agreement.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 21.25 LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   In the absence of a sworn law enforcement officer employed by the town, the
positions of Chief of Police or sworn law enforcement officer shall be
construed to mean any supervisory law enforcement officer of competent
jurisdiction or any law enforcement officer of competent jurisdiction
respectively.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 22: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
22.01   Establishment
   
22.02   Composition, structure, powers, duties
   
22.03—22.09   Reserved
Board of Adjustment
   
22.10   Establishment
   
22.11   Composition, structure, powers, duties
   
22.12   Combination of Board of Adjustment
   
22.13—22.19   Reserved
Parks, Recreation, Open Space, Greenway Commission,
and Tree Board
   
22.20   Establishment
   
22.21   Composition, structure, powers, duties
PLANNING BOARD
§ 22.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Planning Board for the town, which Board is
hereafter referred to as the “Planning Board.”
(Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 22.02 COMPOSITION, STRUCTURE, POWERS, DUTIES.
   The composition, structure, powers and duties of the Planning Board shall be
those set out in
Chapter 91 of this code.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 22.03—22.09 RESERVED.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 22.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment for the town, which Board is
hereinafter referred to as the “Board of Adjustment.”
(Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 22.11 COMPOSITION, STRUCTURE, POWERS, DUTIES.
   The composition, structure, powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment
shall be those set out in
Chapter 91 of this code.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 22.12 COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Planning Board shall also act as the Board of Adjustment and when so
doing shall act in the name and authority, exercising the powers and duties
granted and established for the Board of Adjustment and not the Planning Board.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017)
§§ 22.13—22.19 RESERVED.
PARKS, RECREATION, OPEN SPACE, GREENWAY COMMISSION,
AND TREE BOARD
§ 22.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Parks, Recreation, Open Space, Greenway
Commission, and Tree Board for the town, which Board is hereafter referred to
as the “Parks Commission.”
(Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017; Am. Ord. 24-2, passed 5-13-2024)
§ 22.21 COMPOSITION, STRUCTURE, POWERS, DUTIES.
   The composition, structure, powers and duties of the Parks Commission shall
be those set out as follows:
   (A)   Membership. The Parks Commission members shall exemplify and take an
active interest in the town parks, tree resource management, recreation, open
space, and greenway programs through active involvement. Additionally, where
possible, appointments shall be made in such a manner as to maintain on the
Parks Commission at all times a majority of members who have experience with
and knowledge of parks, recreation, open space, greenways, tree resource
management, planning and development.
   (B)   Composition. The Parks Commission shall be comprised of seven members
appointed as follows:
      (1)   Six members: One member to represent each neighborhood with an
established Property Owners Association (POA); and
      (2)   One member to represent the Planning Board.
   (C)   Term. Members shall be appointed for three-year, staggered terms.
Initial appoints shall consist of three members with three-year terms, two
members with two-year terms, and two members with one-year terms.
   (D)   Duties. The Parks Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Study and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners for
possible implementation of parks, tree source management, recreation, open
space, and greenway plans, policies, or initiatives.
      (2)   Educate the general public about the town’s parks, recreation, open
space, and greenway programs.
      (3)   Provide assistance necessary to help promote the development of the
parks, recreation, open space, and greenway plans as approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (4)   Review and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners, in
conjunction with the Planning Board, on development tracts which involve the
dedication of a component of the town’s parks, recreation, open space, or
greenway system.
      (5)   Seek sponsors and grants to help develop the parks, recreation,
open space, and greenway system of the town in accordance with master plans and
policies adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
      (6)   To study issues and make recommendations regarding the needs of the
town in connection with tree resource management.
      (7)   To develop recommendations pertaining to policies and regulations
related to tree resource management.
      (8)   To assist the Board of Commissioners with creating, collecting and
distributing information to the public regarding tree resource management.
      (9)   To provide information regarding the planting and maintenance of
trees on public and private lands.
      (10)   To assist with the coordination of the town’s Arbor Day program,
grants and other similar programs as requested by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   The Parks Commission shall meet at least quarterly, and all meetings
shall be open to the public. Proceedings of the Commission shall be conducted
in accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order. A record shall be maintained of its
members’ attendance, discussions, findings and recommendations, all of which
shall be public records. A majority of the sitting members of the Commission
shall constitute a quorum for the taking of official action.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017; Am. Ord. 24-2, passed 5-13-2024)
TITLE III: PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
30.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
31.   FIRE PROTECTION AND FIRE PREVENTION
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: LAW ENFORCEMENT
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 31: FIRE PROTECTION AND FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
31.01—31.20   Reserved
Fire Prevention Code
   
31.21   Intent of Code
   
31.22   Enforcement of Code
   
31.23   Adoption by reference
   
31.24   Inspection of buildings and premises
   
31.25   Permits
   
31.26   Service of order or notices
   
31.27   Tank installation
   
31.28   Fee schedule
   
31.29   Removal of obstructions, prohibited parking
   
31.30   Emergency entry
   
31.31   Investigation of fires
   
31.32   Fire records
§§ 31.01—31.20RESERVED.
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 31.21 INTENT OF CODE.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Code to prescribe regulations consistent with
nationally recognized good practice for the safe guarding of life and property
within the jurisdiction of the town from hazards of fire and explosion arising
from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and
devices, and from hazardous conditions in the use or occupancy of building or
premises.
   (B)   The Code shall not be construed to hold the town responsible for any
damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or re-inspection
authorized herein or failure to inspect or the permits issued or denied as
herein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any equipment
authorized herein,
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.22 ENFORCEMENT OF CODE.
   The Fire Prevention and Protection Code of the town shall be enforced by the
Fire Chief or Fire Marshal and their authorized representatives or as otherwise
provided herein. By resolution, the Board of Commissioners, may appoint another
local government unit to enforce this provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.23 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein the most
current edition of the International Fire Code as amended, which has been
adopted by the State of North Carolina Fire Code, together with each appendices
thereto adopted by the State of North Carolina Fire Code.
   (B)   Amendments to codes and standards adopted by reference herein which
are adopted and published by the North Carolina State Building Code Council
shall be effective in the town at the time such amendments become a part of
“The Fire Code” of North Carolina.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.24 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   Subject to the limitations and conditions stated in the North Carolina Fire
Code, it shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal to inspect or cause to be
inspected as often as he or she may deem necessary or appropriate all
buildings, structures and premises within his or her jurisdiction for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any condition which may
cause fire or explosion, endanger life from fire or explosion, or any
violations of the provisions of the Code, or any other ordinances pertaining to
fire or explosion hazards.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.25 PERMITS.
   (A)   This Code shall require permits from the Fire Marshal as set forth in
the North Carolina Fire Code.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal to evaluate applications and
issue, if approved, all permits for those conditions as prescribed in this
Code.
   (C)   No person shall maintain, store or handle materials or conduct
processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or property or install
equipment used in connection with such activities without a permit as required
by the Fire Marshal and prescribed in North Carolina Fire Code. Before a permit
may be issued, the Fire Marshal shall inspect and approve the receptacles,
vehicles, buildings, structures, storage areas, devices, processes and
conditions related to the permit.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.26 SERVICE OF ORDER OR NOTICES.
   (A)   The service of orders or notices for the correction of violations of
the Code shall be made upon the owner, occupant or other persons responsible
for the conditions, either by personally delivering a copy of the same to such
person or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in charge of
the premises or by sending a copy of the order of notice by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address.
   (B)   When buildings or other premises are occupied by one other than the
owner under a lease or other agreement, the orders or notices issued to correct
violations of the Code shall apply to the occupant thereof; provided that where
the order or notices require the making of additions to or changes in the
premises themselves which may become part of the real property of the owner,
then in such cases, the orders of notices shall also be issued to the owner of
the premises or real property. Failure to deliver an order or notice to the
owner, if other than the occupant, shall not invalidate such order or notice.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.27 TANK INSTALLATION.
   Before any tank for underground or aboveground storage of volatile flammable
or combustible liquids or any other hazardous material covered by the
provisions of this Code shall be installed, a permit must be issued and shall
be granted only upon written application made to the Fire Marshal setting forth
therein the location, character, size and capacity of the tank, and the purpose
for which it is to be used and an agreement that the applicant or user will
conform to all the provisions of this Code and the ordinances then existing,
and in case a pump is to be used in connection therewith, the application shall
state its location with respect to the tanks and with respect to the property
line. The Fire Marshal shall determine whether the proposed tanks comply with
the provisions of this Code, the ordinances of the town, and laws of the state,
and shall issue the permit if he or she finds there is compliance. The Fire
Marshal shall have the right to inspect the tanks and appliances before, during
and after installation, and see that its location, installation and operation
are in accordance with this Code, the ordinances of the town and laws of the
state. After the tank is placed in the excavation, and fittings and connections
have been attached thereto, and before it has been covered or concealed from
inspection, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Fire Marshal and
shall wait until the installation of the tank connections and fittings have
been approved before covering them.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.28 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fees for inspections and permits required by this Code shall be
determined by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. Should another
government unit, pursuant to §
31.22 be appointed to enforce this chapter, the governing body of the appointed
unit shall set the fee schedule pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Inspection fees shall be paid within the number of days specified in
the billing notice of the amount of the fee.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.29 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS, PROHIBITED PARKING.
   Any vehicle found obstructing any fire hydrant, marked rural water point,
fire protection equipment, designated and marked fire lane, or fire station may
be removed or towed away by or under the direction of the Fire Marshal to a
storage area or garage. The owner of such vehicle shall be deemed to have
appointed the Fire Marshal as his or her agent for the purpose of arranging for
the transportation and safe storage of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle,
before obtaining possession thereof, shall pay all reasonable cost incidental
to the removal and storage of the vehicle due for the violation of prohibited
parking.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.30 EMERGENCY ENTRY.
   The Fire Chief or his or her authorized representatives shall have the right
to enter any building or premises without permission or warrant in the event of
any emergency situation constituting a threat to human life, property or the
public safety for the purpose of eliminating, controlling or abating the
dangerous conditions or situation.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.31 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief’s Office shall investigate the cause, origin and
circumstances of every fire occurring in the town which is of a suspicious
nature or which involves loss of life or injury to persons, or when notified by
any fire department or a fire protection district or when circumstances
warrant. Such investigations shall begin immediately upon the occurrence of
such a fire and, if it appears that such fire is of suspicious origin, the Fire
Marshal shall be immediately notified and coordinate investigation activities.
Any information obtained pursuant to any such investigation shall be
confidential as authorized by law.
   (B)   Upon request of the Fire Marshal or his or her authorized
representatives, any law enforcement agency may render such assistance as
necessary in the investigation or any fire determined to be of suspicious
origin.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 31.32 FIRE RECORDS.
   The Fire Department shall keep a record of all fires and of all the facts
concerning the same, including statistics as to the extent of such fires and
the damages caused thereby.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Proclamation of restrictions in response to needs of an emergency
   
32.02   Dispersal of assemblies during an emergency
   
32.03   Storage of firearms and ammunition by dealers applicable during state
if emergency
§ 32.01 PROCLAMATION OF RESTRICTIONS IN RESPONSE TO NEEDS OF AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may impose the prohibitions and restrictions
specified in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) below in the manner described
therein. The Mayor may impose as many of those prohibitions and restrictions as
he or she finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an
acceptable level of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety and
property. The Mayor shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation. The
proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable steps to give
notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it and shall post
a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall retain a text of the
proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of it for use as
evidence. The proclamation may contain the following:
      (1)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas
and during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a
member of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical
area and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption he or she finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted. Unless otherwise specified in
the proclamation, the curfew shall apply during the specified period each day
until the Mayor by proclamation removes the curfew.
      (2)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine, other than on one’s own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer of any intoxicating liquor. The prohibition, if
imposed, shall apply to transfers of intoxicating liquor by employees of
alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by anyone else within the town. If
imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the town.
      (3)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession of any dangerous
weapon or substance unless it remains in a place of storage within the
possessor’s premises, or, if the weapon or substance cannot be readily stored
in the possessor’s premises, unless it remains in a customary place of storage
not readily available to the possessor. The proclamation may also prohibit the
sale or other transfer or the transportation of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted. If imposed, these restrictions shall
apply throughout the jurisdiction of the town. For purposes of this division
(A)(3), DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means any of the following:
         (a)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device or other
instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of serious
bodily injury or destruction of property;
         (b)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used
to inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so destructively used; and
         (c)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b) above.
      (4)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to
obtain access to any area designated in the manner described in this division
(A), in violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating
that access is denied or restricted. Areas to which access is denied or
restricted shall be designated by the Chief of Police and his or her
subordinates when directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When
acting under this authority, the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates
may restrict or deny access to any area, street or location within the town if
that restriction or denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote
efforts being made to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation
of the emergency.
   (B)   The Mayor may amend the proclamation from time to time, making any
modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include in the
original proclamation.
   (C)   The Mayor shall by proclamation remove the prohibitions and
restrictions as the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed to do
so by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The Mayor in his or her discretion may invoke the restrictions
authorized by this section in separate proclamations, and may amend any
proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 32.02 DISPERSAL OF ASSEMBLIES DURING AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may prohibit assemblies of three or more
persons in specified geographic areas of the town after he or she finds that
these assemblies constitute a clear and present danger of prolonging or
aggravating an existing emergency which endangers lives, safety and property.
The proclamation shall be in writing and state the Mayor’s findings. The Mayor
shall take reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to
those affected by it, and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor
shall retain a text of the proclamation and upon request shall furnish
certified copies of it for use as evidence.
   (B)   The proclamation authorized by division (A) above shall specify the
geographical area or areas in which the restrictions apply. The Mayor may amend
the proclamation from time to time, making any modifications in the
geographical area to which it applies as he or she determines to be necessary
to maintain the purposes of the prohibition. The Mayor shall by proclamation
remove the prohibition when the emergency no longer requires it, or when
directed to do so by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Any police officer may order any assembly prohibited by a proclamation
authorized by this section to disperse.
   (D)   The failure of any member of an assembly ordered to disperse by a
police officer acting under authority of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 32.03 STORAGE OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION BY DEALERS APPLICABLE DURING STATE
IF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of selling firearms and
ammunition or both shall comply with the following rules:
      (1)   No ammunition shall be displayed on an open counter or in any other
place readily accessible to the public.
      (2)   No ammunition or firearms shall be displayed in windows or display
areas when the business is not regularly open.
      (3)   During any period in which firearms or ammunition or both are
unattended, they shall be stored in a place meeting the requirements of
regulations promulgated by the Board of Commissioners under authority of this
section, or, if no regulations have been promulgated, in a place difficult for
access to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to promulgate regulations
governing the construction, location and accessibility of storage places for
firearms and ammunition required to be used by this section. The Board of
Commissioners may adopt any regulations under this authority that in its
judgment will reasonably and effectively serve to prevent unauthorized persons
from obtaining the stored firearms and ammunition.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall take reasonable steps to notify all
persons that it can reasonably identify as being affected by these regulations
of their requirements. The notification shall sufficiently precede the
effective date of the regulations to permit compliance with them. The town
shall maintain on file an official copy of the regulations.
   (D)   Any person failing to comply with any requirements of this section or
of any reasonable regulations promulgated under authority of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 10-9-2014)
TITLE IV: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
40.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
41.   DRAINAGE WAYS
      
42.   SOLID WASTE
      
43.   TOWN FACILITIES
      
44.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
CHAPTER 40: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
40.01   Permit to dig in streets
   
40.02   Application for permit
   
40.03   Town indemnified
   
40.04   Street repair
   
40.05   Excavations, leaving unprotected
   
40.06   Supervision and control
   
40.07   Streets not to be damaged
   
40.08   Moving of buildings
   
40.09   Placing of poles
   
40.10   Use of poles and conduits for town purposes
   
40.11   Barricades
   
40.12   Obstructing streets
   
40.13   Encroachments in the public right-of- way
   
40.14   Damage to bridges, culverts and drainage structures
   
40.15—40.19   Reserved
Special Street Cleaning
   
40.20   Acts and conditions requiring special street cleaning or repair
prohibited
   
40.21   Town to clean and repair streets, sidewalks and drains requiring
special cleaning or repair
   
40.22—40.39   Reserved
Obstructions to Cross-Visibility at Intersections Deemed Nuisance
   
40.40   Obstructions to cross-visibility at intersections deemed nuisance
   
40.41   Application of restrictions
   
40.42   Installation and maintenance of signs or certain vegetation or objects
prohibited
   
40.43   Exceptions
   
40.44   Emergency measures
   
40.45   Conflicting provisions
   
40.46   Administration
   
40.47   Abatement procedure
   
40.48   Additional remedies
   
40.49—40.98   Reserved
 
   
40.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 40.01 PERMIT TO DIG IN STREETS.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening, or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public
place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, electric conduit
or poles for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by the town.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or
sidewalk shall make written application therefor, which application shall show
the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate
number of square feet of surface to be cut. The application shall be
accompanied by the fee required by this section. The fee required for making
any opening in any street or sidewalk shall be according to a fee schedule for
the permits, established by the Board of Commissioners, which is hereby adopted
as though set out in full herein.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.03 TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in §§
40.01 and
40.02, as a requirement for issuance of the permit, shall execute and deliver
to the town a good and sufficient bond, with corporate security or other surety
approved by the Board of Commissioners in an amount equal to one and one-half
the estimated amount of restoring the street or sidewalk as it existed prior to
the excavation, the aforesaid bond being conditioned upon the restored area
remaining in a good state of repair, free from maintenance for a period of one
year from the date the restoration made by the permitter is completed. In
addition to the aforesaid bond, the town shall be provided an indemnity to hold
harmless the town against any claims or expenses, including attorney fees, for
bodily injury, for property damages for accidents or accordance rising out of
the persons, firm or entity, excluding only the liability of the town for its
sole negligence except in connection with general supervision of work performed
by the person, firm or entity.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.04 STREET REPAIR.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the
town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the excavation
or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to
restore it to the more stringent of the current town standards as specified in
the town’s specifications for minimum standard street specifications or as per
instructions of the Department of Public Works to replace in-kind that which
was removed. Any person, firm or corporation, neglecting, refusing or failing
to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation
thereof and subject to the provisions of §
40.99.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.05 EXCAVATIONS, LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a
permit under the provisions of this subchapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any town maintained
street right-of-way, town maintained alleyway or public place of the town
without placing and maintaining proper guard rails, signal lights or other
warnings at, in or around the excavation, sufficient to warn the public of the
excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from
injuries on account of the work.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.06 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places of
the town shall be under the supervision and control of the Department of Public
Works, whose duty it shall be to inspect the work from time to time during the
progress thereof. Upon the completion thereof, a final inspection shall be made
to see that the street, sidewalk or public place is restored to town
specification and that all debris, materials, tools and equipment are removed
therefrom. Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a violation thereof and subject to the provisions of
§
40.99
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.07 STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or run, or
cause to be dragged or run, any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or
tool on any bituminous asphalt, or other type of permanently paved street
right-of-way of the town which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the
surface thereof.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.08 MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move any building on or across the
public streets or sidewalks until the following procedures have been complied
with:
   (A)   An application for a house moving permit must be submitted to the
Department of Public Works.
   (B)   A building permit must be obtained.
   (C)   Approval of the moving route shall be from the Director of Public
Works.
   (D)   The Department of Public Works will not approve the moving permit
unless all appropriate fees have been submitted. The fee shall be according to
a schedule for permits, established by the Board of Commissioners, which is
hereby adopted as though set out in full herein.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.09 PLACING OF POLES.
   No poles for electric, cable television, fiber optic shall be placed or
erected in any street right-of-way without a permit therefor from the town.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.10 USE OF POLES AND CONDUITS FOR TOWN PURPOSES.
   One duct in all underground conduit systems shall be provided, free of
charge and the town shall have the use of any and all poles on streets for the
same purpose.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.11 BARRICADES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle into or on
any alley or street when the alley or street has been barricaded by an employee
of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an employee of the
town, to remove, tear down or destroy any barricade which has been erected by
the town.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.12 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any street, sidewalk, alley,
public road or public square without the permission of the Board of
Commissioners, or to occupy not more than one-half the width of the street.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.13 ENCROACHMENTS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or erect any porch, step,
platform, wall, fence, column, footing or other like obstruction upon or under
any sidewalk, street or alley within the town; provided, however, that in the
restoration, reconstruction or addition to buildings of an historical nature or
where no building setback lines are required by the zoning ordinance of the
town, it shall be permissible, upon the approval of the Board of Commissioners,
to make such restoration, reconstruction or addition to encroach upon or under
a sidewalk. As a condition precedent to the Board of Commissioners’ issuance of
any permit for such encroachment, the following requirements shall be met:
      (1)   The building to be restored, reconstructed or added upon shall be
located in an existing or proposed local historic district.
      (2)   The right-of-way of the street upon which any such building abuts
shall be at least 45 feet wide.
      (3)   The encroachment shall not extend over or upon a sidewalk,
including the street curbing, for a distance of greater than four feet or for
more than one-third of the sidewalk width, whichever is less, nor shall the
encroachment extend under a sidewalk for a distance of greater than four feet.
      (4)   Prior to the submittal to the Board of Commissioners, detailed
plans must be submitted and approved by the Department of Public Works.
   (B)   Such encroachment upon or under any sidewalk shall constitute the
owner’s agreement to protect and hold the town harmless against any and all
liability, cost, damage or expense suffered or sustained by the towny as a
result of or growing out of the encroachment upon or under such sidewalk.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.14 DAMAGE TO BRIDGES, CULVERTS AND DRAINAGE STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, deface or cause to
malfunction any bridge, culvert, ditch, drain or other property owned or used
by the town, or to obstruct any culvert, ditch or drain so as to prevent the
free flow of water on, over or under the streets of the town or cause any
street to be inundated.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 40.15—40.19 RESERVED.
SPECIAL STREET CLEANING
§ 40.20 ACTS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRING SPECIAL STREET CLEANING OR REPAIR
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any act, neglect or omission, or any condition caused or allowed to
continue which creates or results in causing a condition in or on any public
street, sidewalk or storm drain which requires special cleaning or repair of
the street, sidewalk or storm drain is hereby prohibited. Prohibited acts,
neglects, omissions and conditions which result in requiring special cleaning
or repair shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The hauling of dirt, debris or materials removed from the sites of
construction or reconstruction of buildings or structures, or waste materials
of any land, in such manner that any portion of the dirt, debris or materials
is spilled, lost, dropped or left on the streets or sidewalks.
      (2)   The depositing or leaving on the streets or sidewalks of mud, dirt
or any other material as a result of the use of trucks, construction equipment
or machinery, regardless of whether the materials are spilled, lost or dropped
in transit or are deposited on the surface of the street or public property by
the tires or wheels of the trucks, construction equipment or machinery.
      (3)   The grading of lots, land or driveways at elevations higher than
street or sidewalk level, or any other acts, neglects or conditions created or
allowed to exist on the property which result in mud, dirt, soil, gravel,
debris or other materials being washed onto town streets or sidewalks or into
the town storm drainage system.
      (4)   No person, firm or corporation shall deposit or cause to be
deposited any yard waste, including, but not limited to, leaves, grass
clippings, twigs or limbs, within the right-of-way of any public street,
sidewalk or storm drain.
   (B)   Special cleaning or repair of streets, sidewalks and the storm
drainage system shall be deemed to be required when their condition is such
that the public health, safety, welfare or public use of them is threatened,
limited or impaired; the use and enjoyment of property abutting the streets or
sidewalks are diminished or limited; or substantial damage is caused to the
streets, sidewalks or drainage facilities or to the abutting property. SPECIAL
CLEANING OR REPAIR as used in this section and §§
40.21 and
40.99 shall include resurfacing, restoration of gravel and similar repairs made
necessary by prohibited acts, neglects or conditions.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.21 TOWN TO CLEAN AND REPAIR STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRAINS REQUIRING
SPECIAL CLEANING OR REPAIR.
   The Public Works Department will clean and repair all streets, sidewalks and
storm drains as and when special cleaning or repair is required by conditions
defined in § 40.20(B). The Public Works Department will keep records of the
costs of all specially required cleaning and repair, which may be computed on
the basis of established per mile or per hour cost of the use of town
equipment, plus labor and materials, including water, likewise computed at cost
to the town.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 40.22—40.39 RESERVED.
OBSTRUCTIONS TO CROSS-VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS DEEMED NUISANCE
§ 40.40 OBSTRUCTIONS TO CROSS-VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS DEEMED NUISANCE.
   In order to promote and conserve the public health and safety and pursuant
to the police powers of the town and the power to prevent and abate public
nuisances as conferred upon the town by the General Statutes of North Carolina,
it is declared to be a public nuisance for a person owning and/or having the
legal control of any land within the corporate limits of the town to maintain
or permit upon any such land any fence, sign, billboard, shrubbery, bush, tree,
mailbox or other object, or any combination thereof, which obstructs the view
of motorists using any street or driveway or approach to any street
intersection or driveway connection so as to constitute a traffic hazard or a
condition dangerous to the public safety.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.41 APPLICATION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The restrictions set forth in §
40.40 shall apply to both of the following triangles of land:
   (A)   That triangle bounded by the curb edges (or edges of pavement where
there is no curb), measured along the curb edge (or edge of pavement where
there is no curb) 50 feet from the midpoint of the radius of the curb edge (or
edge of pavement where there is no curb) in each direction and the diagonal
line connecting the further ends of such 50-foot lengths; and
   (B)   That triangle bounded by the right-of-way lines measured 35 feet from
the point of then intersection in each direction and the diagonal line
connecting the further ends of such 35-foot lengths.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.42 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS OR CERTAIN VEGETATION OR OBJECTS
PROHIBITED.
   Within the triangles described in § 40.41, and except as provided in §
40.43, it shall be unlawful to install, set out or maintain, or allow the
installation, setting out or maintenance of, any sign, hedge, shrubbery, tree,
natural growth, earthen berm or object of any land which obstructs cross-
visibility at a level between 30 inches and 72 inches above the level of the
center of the adjacent intersection.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.43 EXCEPTIONS.
   The foregoing provisions of §
40.42 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Permanent buildings;
   (B)   Existing natural grades which, by reason of natural topography, rise
30 or more inches above the level of the center of the adjacent intersection;
   (C)   Trees having limbs and foliage trimmed in such manner that no limbs or
foliage extend into the area between 30 inches and 72 inches above the level of
the center of the adjacent intersection; and
   (D)   Fire hydrants, public utility poles, street markers, governmental
signs and traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.44 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Where compliance with this section in the triangles described in §
40.41 or at the heights described in §
40.43 is insufficient to prevent a dangerous condition, the Department of
Public Works may designate further measures which must be taken by the owner or
other responsible person to eliminate such dangerous condition. Such measures
shall be designed to provide an adequate sight and stopping distance for
persons approaching the intersection at prevailing speeds and may include the
removal of obstructions at different heights or in areas outside the triangles
established in §
40.41.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.45 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions or any other law, ordinance or regulation of the town or
of the state shall be in conflict with the provisions of this subchapter, the
more stringent provisions shall control.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.46 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of this subchapter shall be under the direction of the
Department of Public Works who shall investigate violations, issue such notices
and orders as are required herein, and perform such other duties as may be
necessary to the enforcement hereof.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.47 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Any obstruction to cross-visibility maintained in violation of this
subchapter shall be deemed to be a public nuisance inconsistent with and
detrimental to the public safety and shall be abated in accordance with the
following procedure:
   (A)   The Department of Public Works shall cause to be served by certified
mail a written notice and order of abatement upon the owner, tenant and/or
person having legal control of the premises upon which such obstruction exists.
   (B)   Such obstruction shall be removed within ten days from the date of
receipt of such notice and order.
   (C)   Any person receiving such notice and order may, within ten days from
receipt thereof, request, in writing, a hearing before the Town Administrator
or his or her designee. If any person receiving such notice and order does not
comply with the order and does not request in writing, a hearing before the
Town Administrator or his or her designee within that ten- day period, the
Department of Public Works may request, in writing, that the Town Administrator
or his or her designee fix the date of hearing and notify the person upon whom
the notice and order has been served of the time and place of such hearing. If,
after such hearing, the Town Administrator or his or her designee finds that
the obstruction in question does in fact constitute a public nuisance, the Town
Administrator or his or her designee shall order that such nuisance be abated
within ten days from the date of such order. Upon failure by any person to
comply with such order of the Town Administrator or his or her designee, the
Department of Public Works shall cause the removal of such obstruction by town
forces and/or an independent contractor, the cost of such removal shall be
billed to the owner and/or person having legal control of the land. If unpaid
for more than 30 days, such cost shall be a lien against the property from
which such obstruction is removed. The Department of Public Works shall have
the authority to file the lien on the public records of Brunswick County and to
cancel the lien when paid.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 40.48 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In addition to other remedies provided herein, the town shall be entitled to
seek a judicial injunction and order of abatement or other equitable remedy to
secure the enforcement of this subchapter regardless of whether the Town
Administrator has held or been requested to hold a hearing or the Administrator
or Board of Commissioners has declared the condition a nuisance.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 40.49—40.98 RESERVED.
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
40.30 or
40.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person whose act, neglect, omission or who, by permitting a
condition to continue, whether done or neglected directly or through an agent,
servant or employee, causes additional expense to the town for necessary
special street, sidewalk or storm drain cleaning or repair, shall reimburse the
town for its expense upon receipt of an itemized statement of expense submitted
by the town, and upon failure to reimburse the town shall incur and be liable
to the town for a civil penalty of $200.
   (C)   The Finance Department shall send to any person responsible for
additional expense to the town an itemized statement of the expense incurred
and a request for reimbursement. The Town Attorney is authorized to bring suit
in the name of the town to recover any unpaid penalties.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 41: DRAINAGE WAYS
Section
   
41.01   Definition of drainage way
   
41.02   Protection of drainage ways
   
41.03   Maintenance of drainage ways
   
41.04   Dumping of pollutants
   
41.05   Loitering prohibited
   
41.06   Encroachment prohibited
§ 41.01 DEFINITION OF DRAINAGE WAY.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any drainage easement, right-of-way, channel, stream, creek,
swale, ditch or other facility which the general public or the town has a right
or interest for stormwater drainage purposes, which conveys surface stormwater
runoff throughout the town, except that roadside ditches shall be considered as
an integral component of street operation and maintenance and not a drainage
way.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 41.02 PROTECTION OF DRAINAGE WAYS.
   All drainage ways shall be kept free and clear of any natural or human-made
obstruction. Willfully obstructing a drainage way is prohibited.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 41.03 MAINTENANCE OF DRAINAGE WAYS.
   Drainage ways shall be maintained in a manner that keeps the free flow of
surface stormwater unimpeded by natural or human-made obstacles. Pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-193.1 as amended, the Department of Public Works shall be
responsible for the maintenance of drainage ways and the administration of this
section.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 41.04 DUMPING OF POLLUTANTS.
   No person shall knowingly, willfully or wantonly dump, deposit, pour or
otherwise dispose of pollutants such as, but not limited to, oil, gas,
solvents, soaps, lipids or grease into any drainage way. The application of
pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer shall be exempt from prohibition.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 41.05 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall loiter in, along or adjacent to a drainage way for the
purposes of criminal or immoral activity.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 41.06 ENCROACHMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect a permanent or semi-permanent structure in, along or
adjacent to a drainage way. Drainage ways without established right-of-way
shall have a non-encroachment buffer of ten feet from the approximate line of
wrested vegetation or the top of embankment plus five feet, whichever is
greater.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 42: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
42.01   Definitions
   
42.02   Solid waste collection standards
   
42.03   Pre-collection practices
   
42.04   Collection practices
   
42.05   Special refuse standards
§ 42.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For the purposes
of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations,
shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the
plural number. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Materials such as lumber, brick, plaster, guttering or
other substances accumulated as a result of repairs or additions to existing
buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing structures.
   COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS UNIT. Any building or structure in or from which a
business, trade or commerce is conducted.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION MATERIAL. Waste building materials resulting from
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   CONTRACT DOCUMENTS. The request for proposals, instructions to proposers,
contractor’s proposal, general specifications, the contract performance bond
and any addenda or changes to the foregoing documents agreed to by the town and
the contractor.
   CONTRACTOR. The person, corporation or partnership performing solid waste
collection services under contract to the town or county.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the town.
   DISPOSAL SITE. A refuse depository including, but not limited to, sanitary
landfills, transfer stations and waste processing/separation centers licensed,
permitted or approved by all governmental bodies and agencies having
jurisdiction and requiring such licenses, permits or approvals to receive
refuse for processing or final disposal.
   GARBAGE. Every accumulation of waste (animal, vegetable and/or other matter)
that results from the preparation, processing, consumption, dealing in,
handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation, decay or decomposition of
meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains or other animal or vegetable matter
(including, but not by way of limitation, used tin cans and other food
containers; and all putrescible or easily decomposable animal or vegetable
waste matter which is likely to attract flies or rodents); except (in all
cases) any matter included in the definition of construction debris, yard waste
or hazardous waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate state agency by or pursuant to federal or state law, or waste, in
any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law. For purposes of this
chapter, the term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall also include motor oil, gasoline, paint
and items containing freon or chlorofluorocarbons.
   LANDFILL. A licensed landfill for the acceptance of municipal solid waste.
   LARGE MULTI-FAMILY UNITS. Any group of apartments under the same ownership
with more than ten living units.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Generated in the diagnosis, treatment or immunization of
human beings or animals, in research pertaining thereto, or in the production
or testing of biologicals.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. Container designed for use by residential units for
storage and removal of recyclable materials.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Newsprint; brown, clear and green glass and jars;
corrugated cardboard; aluminum and bi-metal cans; HDPE clear plastic milk jugs
and PET plastic soft drink containers; or any other commodity agreed upon in
writing by the town and contractor.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes. Including all garbage and/
or rubbish and/or yard waste generated by a producer.
   RESIDENTIAL UNITS. An occupied dwelling (whether a single-family home or a
multi-family unit) containing ten or less units within the corporate limits of
the town requiring curbside collection. A RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall be deemed
occupied when either water or domestic light and power services are being
supplied thereto.
   RUBBISH. All chips, shavings, sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard,
rags, straw, used and discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots,
combustible waste pulp and other products such as are used for packaging, or
wrapping crockery and glass, ashes, cinders, floor sweepings, glass, mineral or
metallic substances, and any and all other similar waste materials not included
in the definition of bulky waste, construction debris, garbage or hazardous
waste.
   TOWN. The Town of Carolina Shores, North Carolina.
   WHEELED CONTAINER. A plastic covered container permanently attached to
wheels designed for use by residential units for storage of garbage and other
miscellaneous refuse with a capacity of not less than 90 gallons.
   WHITE GOODS. Large domestic appliances, including, but not limited to,
stoves, water heaters, refrigerators, freezers, window air conditioning units.
   YARD WASTE. All tree trimmings, dead plants, weeds, leaves, and dead tree
debris not exceeding four feet in length, and which can be readily loaded by
two laborers; and trimmings and grass clippings placed in plastic bags which
weigh no more than 50 pounds.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2014)
§ 42.02 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) below, all
refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by
the town, county or their authorized contractor. No person shall collect,
convey over any of the streets or alleys of the town, or dispose of, any refuse
accumulated in the town.
      (1)   This chapter shall not prohibit the actual producers of refuse, or
the owners of premises on which refuse has accumulated, from personally
collecting, conveying and disposing of the refuse, provided the producers or
owners comply with the provisions of this chapter and with any other governing
law or ordinances.
      (2)   This chapter shall not prohibit any person operating under a
license or franchise expressly granted by the governing authorities the town
from collecting, conveying and disposing of refuse provided the persons comply
with the provisions of this chapter and with any other governing law or
ordinances.
      (3)   This chapter shall not prohibit collectors of refuse from outside
of the town from hauling refuse over town streets, provided the collectors
comply with the provisions of this chapter and with any other governing law or
ordinances.
   (B)   All refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the town, county or their contractor under the supervision of
the Director of Public Works. The Director shall have the authority to make
regulations concerning the days of collection, type and location of waste
containers, and any other matters pertaining to the collection, conveyance and
disposal as he or she shall find necessary, and to change and modify the
regulations after notice to the public, provided that the regulations are not
contrary to the provisions of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by a
regulation of the Director shall have the right of appeal to the Town
Administrator who shall have the authority to confirm, modify or revoke any
regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2014)
§ 42.03 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Preparation of refuse. All refuse entering the solid waste management
system of the town shall be prepared in the following uniform manner:
      (1)   Garbage. All garbage, before being placed in a container for
collection, shall have drained from it all free liquids and must be bagged.
      (2)   Rubbish. All rubbish shall be drained of liquid before being
deposited for collection.
      (3)   Excess garbage, rubbish and residential trash. Garbage, rubbish and
residential trash that cannot be placed in the wheeled container shall not be
placed next to the container for collection. This type of waste shall be the
responsibility of the waste producer to remove and dispose of via a non-
curbside collection method.
      (4)   Yard waste. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings and similar material
shall be cut to a length not to exceed four feet and shall be the
responsibility of the waste producer to remove and dispose of via a non-
curbside collection method. Each residence shall be limited to a maximum of
eight cubic yards of yard waste per month to be disposed at the town’s solid
waste convenience site.
      (5)   Recyclable materials. All recyclable materials being placed in a
container for collection shall have drained from it all free liquids.
   (B)   Refuse producers.
      (1)   Residential producers. Residential refuse producers have available
to them the use and enjoyment of the town solid waste convenience site and
pursuant to §
42.02. Some neighborhoods have the use and enjoyment of curbside solid waste
collection by a contractor. For those residential producers with curbside solid
waste collection, refuse containers for residential units shall be a wheeled
container provided by the town, county or contractor. Any owner, tenant, lessee
or occupant of any residential unit desiring additional wheeled containers
beyond what is provided for by the town, county or contractor as part of the
basic service, shall have the option of contacting the town, county or
contractor for additional containers. For those residential producers with
convenience site collection only, §
42.02 promulgated regulations shall apply for the use of the town solid waste
convenience site. For residential producers with curbside solid waste
collection, the convenience of curbside recyclable collection is available for
a fee. For residential producers without curbside solid waste collection, no
curbside recyclable collection is available. For all residential producers of
garbage, refuse, yard waste and recyclables, the town convenience site is
available and governed under rules promulgated pursuant to §
42.02.
      (2)   Commercial and business producers. No commercial, industrial,
business or nonresidential waste shall be allowed into the solid waste
management system of the town.
   (C)   Storing of refuse.
      (1)   Containers. All refuse which readily fits into the container shall
be placed in a container.
      (2)   Public places. No person shall place any refuse in any street,
alley or other public place, or on any private property whether owned by the
person or not, within the town except in proper containers for collection, or
under express approval granted by the Director of Public Works. Nor shall any
person throw or deposit any refuse in any stream or other body of water.
      (3)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit
anywhere within the town any refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or
other public place, or into any occupied premises within the town. Remedy for
the correction of such a situation shall be performed by the property owner at
the direction of the town.
   (D)   Points of collection.
      (1)   Wheeled containers. Where the wheeled container is used the owner,
tenant, lessee or occupant of the premises shall be responsible for causing the
wheeled container to be placed at the curb or side of the street, but not in
the portion of the street used for vehicular travel, at a place readily
accessible for collection by the town, county or contractor. The wheeled
containers shall be so located not earlier than 6:00 p.m. the day prior to
collection nor later than 8:00 a.m. on the day of the pickup and must be
removed from the street location not later than 6:00 p.m. the same day. If
there is no member of the premises or household to which a wheeled container is
assigned who is capable of moving the wheeled container as required herein, he
or she shall notify the town, county or contractor in writing of the existence
of the disability. In this event, the disabled person shall furnish a
physician’s certificate confirming the disability and on the failure of the
alleged disabled person to furnish the certificate within ten days after
required, the alleged disabled person shall be deemed physically able to comply
with all the provisions of this section. No person shall molest or interfere
with the contents of any wheeled container or the container itself which has
been set out for collection and removal by the town.
      (2)   Roll-off container, detachable containers and dumpster. Where a
roll-off container, detachable containers or dumpster is used, the owner,
tenant, lessee or occupant of the premises shall provide a location for the
container off the right-of-way.
      (3)   Obstacles to collection. The owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of
the premises shall have the responsibility of keeping the premises free from
dogs or any other obstacle which would hinder or impede town, county or
contractor/personnel from removing or renaming the container to the premises.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2014)
§ 42.04 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Curbside collection. Curbside collection by the town, county or
contractor thereof shall be provided pursuant to §
42.02.
   (B)   Convenience site collection. Convenience site collection by the town,
county or contractor thereof shall be provided pursuant to §
42.02 with the following supplemental standards: this chapter shall not
prohibit collectors of refuse from outside of the town from hauling refuse over
town streets, provided the collectors comply with the provisions of this
chapter and with any other governing law or ordinances.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2014)
§ 42.05 SPECIAL REFUSE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Communicable disease prevention.
      (1)   Contagious disease refuse. The removal of wearing apparel, bedding
or other refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious or
contagious diseases have prevailed should be performed under the supervision
and direction of the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources. This refuse shall not be placed in containers for regular
collection.
      (2)   Medical waste. Medical waste shall not be placed in any receptacle
provided by the town, county or its contractor and shall not be placed out for
collection by the town, county or its contractor.
   (B)   Hazardous waste.
      (1)   Flammable or explosive refuse. Highly flammable or explosive
materials shall not be placed in containers for regular collection but shall be
disposed of as directed by the Director of Public Works at the expense of the
owner or possessor thereof.
      (2)   Tires. Whole automobile, truck, tractor or implement tires shall
not be placed in containers for collection and will not be collected under any
circumstances.
      (3)   Hazardous solid or liquid waste. No hazardous solid or liquid waste
shall be put in any receptacle for collection by the town, county or its
contractor.
      (4)   Ashes. No hot ash shall be placed in wheeled containers. All ashes
set out for collection shall be cooled and be placed in plastic bags for
collection.
   (C)   Other wastes.
      (1)   No tree limbs, stumps, logs or other large material that cannot be
readily loaded by two laborers shall be hauled by the town. No tree limbs cut
by landscape or tree service contractors or workers will be hauled by the town,
county or its contractor.
      (2)   No building materials, roofing, soil, dirt, rock or concrete will
be collected or hauled by the town or its contractor.
      (3)   Small dead animals will be picked up as needed by the Department of
Public Works. Persons having small dead animals on Saturday, Sunday and
holidays should put the animal in an airtight plastic bag and securely tie same
until the next available collection day.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2014)
CHAPTER 43: TOWN FACILITIES
Section
   
43.01   Applicability
   
43.02   Regulations
   
43.03   Permit to use town facilities
   
43.04   Application for permits
   
43.05   Town indemnified
   
43.06   Administration
   
43.07—43.09   Reserved
   
43.10   Smoking in town facilities
§ 43.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The Board of Commissioners meeting room and the Town Hall lawn may be
reserved for certain private functions pursuant to the regulations adopted in §
43.02.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 43.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The applicant requesting the use of town facilities covered under §
43.01 must be a resident of the town, and at least 18 years of age.
   (B)   Only nonprofit educational, civic, cultural and environmental groups
are eligible to use town facilities covered under §
43.01.
   (C)   Loud and disruptive behavior is prohibited.
   (D)   No eating or drinking indoors is permitted.
   (E)   No open flames are permitted.
   (F)   Items, including chairs, portable toilets, tents and other temporary
fixtures shall be listed upon the permit with a site plan provided.
   (G)   Weapons are prohibited.
   (H)   Signs, decorations or other attachments may not be affixed to
buildings, signs or fences.
   (I)   Ingress and egress into any facility shall not be restricted.
   (J)   No private entity may request to use town facilities for regular or
standing meetings.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 43.03 PERMIT TO USE TOWN FACILITIES.
   No entity other than authorized town officers and employees shall use any
town facility, unless a written permit thereof has been issued by the town. The
town irrevocably grants unto itself, it’s officers and assigns the right to
modify, cancel, suspend, close or limit the activities outlined in a permit
pursuant to this section in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare or for the convenience of the town:
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 43.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   All persons desiring a permit in order to use a town facility shall make
written application therefor, which application shall show the purpose therefor
along with any other information deemed necessary by the Town Administrator.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 43.05 TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in §§
43.03 and
43.04, as a requirement for issuance of the permit, shall execute and deliver
to the town proof of said person’s good and sufficient insurance policy of no
less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, $300,000 bodily injury per person,
$100,000 for property damage per occurrence.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 43.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Administrator or his or her designee shall administer this chapter
and is authorized to approve permits and waive regulations when doing so would
more effectively serve the public’s interest, except where prohibited by law.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 43.07—43.09 RESERVED.
§ 43.10 SMOKING IN TOWN FACILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any building or facility or
portion of a building or facility now or hereafter owned, leased, operated,
occupied, managed or controlled by the town.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 44: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
44.01   Definitions
   
44.02   Permit required
   
44.03   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
44.04   Standards
   
44.05   Certain activities prohibited
   
44.06   Revocation of permit
   
44.07   Interference prohibited
   
44.08   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
§ 44.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. That portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of
the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any land
in or on the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons, or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 44.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or on any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the town unless a permit therefor has been
issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 44.03 REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Town Administrator or his or her designee shall issue permits as
required in § 44.02, and in the issuance thereof he or she shall do the
following:
   (A)   Require a written application for the permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration, which
shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any picket line, and
the time, place, route and duration of any parade or group demonstration, and
any other information which the Town Administrator deems necessary.
   (B)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate.
   (C)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person in charge of the activity. The person shall be
required to accompany the parade, picket line or group demonstration and shall
carry the permit with him or her at that time. The permit shall not be valid in
the possession of any other person.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 44.04 STANDARDS.
   The Town Administrator shall not issue a permit for the proposed parade if
he or she finds:
   (A)   The parades, picket lines or group demonstrations are to commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 8:00 p.m.;
   (B)   The parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Town Administrator or his or her
designee;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
of the parade and of contiguous areas so that adequate police protection cannot
be provided the remainder of the town;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances so that adequate ambulance service to portions of the town
not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
   (F)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (G)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (H)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit; and
   (I)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot
be provided to the town.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 44.05 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket line or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 44.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Administrator shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for the violation by any participant of this
chapter, or the failure of any participant to comply with the terms and
conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 44.07 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Town Administrator.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 44.08 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided, the words used are not derogatory or defamatory in
nature.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 10-9-2014)
TITLE V: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SANITARY SEWER
CHAPTER 50: WATER
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 51: SANITARY SEWER
   [Reserved]
TITLE VI: LICENSING AND REGULATION
   Chapter
      
60.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION
      
61.   TAXICABS
      
62.   PEDDLERS
      
63.   REGULATION OF ALCOHOL SALES
CHAPTER 60: BUSINESS REGISTRATION
Section
   
60.01   Definitions
   
60.02   Construction of this chapter
   
60.03   Registration of business required
   
60.04   Requirements of registration
   
60.05   Census of business activities
   
60.06   Registration fee
   
60.07   Registration enforcement
   
60.08   Failure to pay registration fee
   
60.09   Late registration
   
60.10   Copy of registration on person or agent, availability of registration
for inspection
§ 60.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession or organization regardless of
whether it is for-profit or non-profit.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.02 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted for registration purposes only.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.03 REGISTRATION OF BUSINESS REQUIRED.
   Any business conducted within the corporate limits shall be registered with
the town on an annual basis from July 1 to June 30 of the following year. Such
registration shall be accomplished pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.04 REQUIREMENTS OF REGISTRATION.
   All registrants shall provide their incorporated information, local agent
name, local service address, local telephone number, as well as corporate
contact information if applicable. Should the business have a building open to
the public within the corporate limits of the town, then proof of a current
fire inspection and valid certificate of occupancy shall be provided at the
time of registration.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.05 CENSUS OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
   All registrants shall provide a census of business activity: gross receipts,
number of employees, NAICS code of primary business activity at the time of
registration covered under §
60.04.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.06 REGISTRATION FEE.
   A registration fee of $50 shall be paid to the town at the time of
registration. Fees for first time registrants shall be prorated based on the
number of calendar days from the first day of operation until the next June 30
date. Registration fees shall be waived for non-profit operations.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 17-2, passed 8-4-2016)
§ 60.07 REGISTRATION ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code Compliance Officer of the town shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.08 FAILURE TO PAY REGISTRATION FEE.
   A penalty of $500 shall be imposed on any business that fails to register
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.09 LATE REGISTRATION.
   Pursuant to §
60.03 registration shall occur annually, if on the thirty-first date following
the expiration of registration a late registration fee of $100 in addition to
the registration fee contained in §
60.06 shall be imposed.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 60.10 COPY OF REGISTRATION ON PERSON OR AGENT, AVAILABILITY OF REGISTRATION
FOR INSPECTION.
   Pursuant to this chapter a copy of proof of registration shall be located on
the person or persons conducting business on behalf of the registrant and shall
be readily produced if requested by any public officer or member of the public
at large at any time while conducting business within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 61: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
61.01   Definition
   
61.02   Rates
   
61.03   Parking on street prohibited
   
61.04   Mechanical condition
   
61.05—61.09   Reserved
Owners
   
61.10   Certificate of convenience and necessity required
   
61.11   Application for certificate
   
61.12   Issuance of a certificate
   
61.13   Duration of a certificate
   
61.14   Determination of convenience and necessity
   
61.15   Hearings; notices
   
61.16   Burden of proof
   
61.17   Failure to begin operations
   
61.18   Transfer of certificate
   
61.19   Revocation of certificate
   
61.20   Substitution of vehicles
   
61.21   Indemnity insurance required
   
61.22   Signs identifying vehicle as taxi
   
61.23—61.29   Reserved
Drivers
   
61.30   Driver’s permit required
   
61.31   Application for permit; investigation
   
61.32   Permit issuance fee
   
61.33   Permit duration
   
61.34   Revocation of permit
   
61.35   Displaying permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 61.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers operated on any
street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between the points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger so being transported, whose place of business is
within the corporate limits of the town, and shall not include motor vehicles
or motor vehicle earners as defined in G.S. Chapter 62.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.02 RATES.
   Every person operating taxicabs within the town shall observe and charge
only the rates established from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and
filed in the office of the Town Clerk. No charge shall be made for children
under six years of age when accompanied by an adult. The fares established
shall be conspicuously and permanently posted inside the taxicab in reasonable
view of all passengers.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.03 PARKING ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or store a taxicab on the public
streets of the town for any purpose other than brief stops to pick up and
discharge passengers.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.04 MECHANICAL CONDITION.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each taxicab to keep the
vehicle in good mechanical condition sufficient to meet the state inspection
standards at all times.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 61.05—61.09 RESERVED.
OWNERS
§ 61.10 CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab on and over the
streets of the town without first having applied for and secured from the Board
of Commissioners a certificate of convenience and necessity as herein set
forth.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.11 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab on and over the streets of the
town shall file on forms supplied by the Town Clerk an application for a
certificate of convenience and necessity.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.12 ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have power and it shall be its duty to
order certain certificates issued or to refuse to issue certain certificates or
to issue certificates for a partial exercise only of the privileges sought. It
may attach to the exercise of the rights granted only by the certificates,
those terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and
necessity may require.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.13 DURATION OF A CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate of convenience and necessity shall constitute a franchise from
the town for the operation of taxicabs within the town, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, for one year, unless a shorter period of time is
specified in the certificate. Applications for renewal shall be filed annually
on or before June 1, and the Board of Commissioners shall review all
certificates to be considered for renewal at its first regular meeting in the
month of June of each year. Renewal applications may be filed by letter stating
any change which has occurred from the original certificate or application,
such as the average number of pieces of equipment operated during the previous
year, and the name of the owners of stock if the franchise shall be a
corporation. At the time of renewal each year the Board of Commissioners may
reduce the number of taxicabs authorized to the average number of taxicabs
which the applicant has been actually operating during the previous 12 months.
The owner of a franchise from the town for the operation of taxicabs within the
town shall give the Board of Commissioners at least 30 days prior notice of
intention to cease operating taxicabs under the franchise.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.14 DETERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the franchising of taxicabs, the Board of Commissioners shall, among other
things, take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates to be charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of the taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of applicant in the taxicab business; and
      (7)   Any other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the Board of Commissioners, or a
committee thereof, shall make a full and complete investigation of all facts,
and may, if it so desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the service of the
Chief of Police or any other officer or employee of the town.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.15 HEARINGS; NOTICES.
   Each application for a certificate of convenience and necessity shall be
scheduled for a hearing not later than 20 days after the application is filed.
The applicant shall be notified by the Town Clerk by mail to the business
address set forth in the application of the date and time of the hearing, the
notification to be sent at least ten days before the date and time of the
hearing. The Town Clerk shall also, within the same time, notify all persons
who at that time hold certificates of convenience and necessity for the
operation of taxicabs within the town, of the date and time of the hearing, and
the name of the applicant. In addition, the Town Clerk shall cause to be
published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days
before the hearing, a notice setting forth the name of the applicant and the
date and time of the hearing. The cost of the publication shall be paid for by
the applicant.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.16 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab specified
in his or her application, and all other facts required for the granting of a
certificate.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.17 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant, and the applicant shall fail,
in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operations
within 60 days after the date of the certificate, the certificate shall become
null and void.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.18 TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate is not transferable without the consent of the Board of
Commissioners. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed in the same
manner as an application for a certificate of convenience and necessity. The
proceedings upon the application for a transfer shall be the same as those
described for the issuance of a certificate, except that the question of public
convenience and necessity need not be proved. In the event the franchise has
been issued to a corporation, any change in the ownership of the stock shall be
approved by the Council.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.19 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may at any time after a public hearing
revoke any certificate issued by authority of this subchapter for any one, or
more, of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate in
such a manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by
ordinance;
      (4)   Failure to pay to the town the taxes or license fee for each
taxicab, imposed upon the taxicabs;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety ordinances, or state laws relating to alcoholic beverages or
prostitution;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents; and/or
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the owner has had at least five
days’ notice by personal service or registered mail of the charges against him
or her and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the hearing, it is
found that the owner is guilty of one or more of the offenses listed in
division (A) above, the Board shall have the power to revoke the certificate,
or to condition a revocation upon compliance with its order within any time
fixed by it.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.20 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may, by appropriate
endorsement thereon by the Town Clerk, substitute other vehicles for the
vehicles for which the certificate was granted. In this instance, the liability
insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to the substitute vehicle.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.21 INDEMNITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   All taxicabs and jitneys hauling passengers in the town shall carry
indemnity insurance while operating in or out of the town. The insurance shall
be in the sum of not less than the minimum level of liability insurance
required by G.S. Chapter 20, Article 9A (Motor Vehicle Safety and
Responsibility Act of 1953) to cover injury to one or more persons on account
of the operation of the taxicab or jitney.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.22 SIGNS IDENTIFYING VEHICLE AS TAXI.
   Every person operating taxicabs shall have permanent signs at conspicuous
places on each taxicab showing that it is a taxi and the name of the franchise
and the number of the taxicab assigned.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 61.23—61.29 RESERVED.
DRIVERS
§ 61.30 DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the town, or within a distance of five miles thereof, unless that
person shall have first applied to and secured from the Chief of Police a
permit to drive a taxicab.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.31 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; INVESTIGATION.
   The application required of applicants to drive a taxicab shall be made on
blanks furnished by the town for the purpose and shall, among other things,
state the name, address, physical condition, physical description, former
employers, court record and prove applicant has a valid North Carolina driver’s
license as provided in G.S. Chapter 20, Article C. The application shall be
signed and sworn to by the applicant. The Chief of Police or his or her
designee is hereby designated officer of the town to check the criminal history
concerning the suitability of applicants for a franchise to operate taxicabs in
the town, or to operate a taxicab as an employee of the owner of the taxi
franchise. The information shall be provided to the Town Administrator, or
designee, and shall be and remain confidential.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.32 PERMIT ISSUANCE FEE.
   If the Chief of Police finds that the applicant to drive a taxicab has not
been convicted of a felony; a violation of any federal or state statute
relating to the use, possession and sale of intoxicating liquors; any federal
or state statute relating to prostitution; any federal or state statute
relating to the use, possession and sale of narcotic drugs; within the past
five years, and that the applicant is a citizen of the United States and is not
a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; has not been a
habitual violator of traffic laws; and is a careful and prudent driver, the
Chief may issue a permit to the applicant to drive a taxicab on receipt of the
fee established by Council for these permits.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.33 PERMIT DURATION.
   All permits issued by the town shall be for a maximum term of one year and
shall expire on June 30 of each year. Drivers may renew their permits by filing
an application and paying the required fee.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.34 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   At any time after the issuance of a permit to any person to drive a taxicab,
the Board of Commissioners may revoke the permit, if the person holding the
permit is convicted of a felony; a violation of any federal or state statute
relating to the use, possession and sale of intoxicating liquors; a violation
of any federal or state statute relating to the use, possession and sale of
narcotic drug; repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances; a violation
of any state or federal statute relating to prostitution; or becomes an
habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 61.35 DISPLAYING PERMIT.
   The driver of every taxicab shall at all times while operating the taxicab,
prominently post and display in the taxicab, so as to be visible to the
passengers therein, his or her permit to drive a taxicab.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 62: PEDDLERS
Section
   
62.01   Transient vendors
§ 62.01 TRANSIENT VENDORS.
   No peddler, hawker or transient vendor of merchandise, commodities or
services shall enter upon any private residential premises or business premises
within the town if the property in question is posted with a notice reading “No
Solicitation” or the like.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 63: REGULATION OF ALCOHOL SALES
Section
   
63.01   Purpose and intent
   
63.02   Alcohol sales permitted
§ 63.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of
alcohol sales pursuant to authority granted under G.S. § 160A-205.3 as amended.
(Ord. 20-1, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 63.02 ALCOHOL SALES PERMITTED.
   Any establishment properly licensed by the North Carolina Alcohol Beverage
Control Commission shall be allowed to serve alcohol, pursuant to their permit,
starting at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday mornings.
(Ord 20-1, passed 8-8-2019)
TITLE VII: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   TRUCK AND TRUCK ROUTES
      
75.   PEDESTRIANS
      
76.   BICYCLES
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with Title
   
70.03   Application of Title
   
70.04   Drivers of government-owned vehicles
   
70.05   Authority of public safety officials
   
70.06   Obedience to public safety officials
   
70.07   Authorized emergency vehicle
   
70.08   Approach of public safety vehicles
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A service way providing a secondary means of public access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and any ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power on which any person may ride,
usually having two tandem wheels either of which is 16 inches in diameter or
larger.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets, next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from, except at those points only and in the
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   DRIVER. Every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual physical
control of the operation of any vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two highways which join one another at or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling on different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict. Where a highway includes two
roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of each roadway of the
divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION. In the event the intersecting highway also includes two roadways
30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of the highways
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MO-PED. A motorized bicycle capable of being propelled by either human power
or small motor or engine.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run on the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or device, not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the governing
body, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or guiding traffic on
the streets and thoroughfares of the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   PARK. The stationary positioning of a vehicle while not in use or with the
intention of leaving the vehicle unattended by a licensed driver.
   PARKING LANE. That portion of the paved roadway normally used for the
parking of vehicles. The PARKING LANE is separated from the traffic lane by a
solid white line on the roadway.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every peace officer of the town, including every employee of
the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests for
any violations of the provisions of this title.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons. The function is to provide
traffic access within group developments. Right-of-way improvements remain
private property and the town is not responsible for maintenance.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Various area in the town where the exclusive use and
zoning of property is residential, whether single-family, duplex or apartments.
The intent of this definition is to exclude areas in which residents exist in
areas zoned for business, office or industrial uses.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder, in the
event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, ROADWAY as used herein
shall refer to any roadways separately but not to all the roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within any roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which shall be so protected, marked or
indicated by visible and adequate markers or signs as shall be visible at all
times while so set apart as a SAFETY ZONE for pedestrians.
   SIDEWALK STANDING. The brief stopping of a vehicle for the immediate loading
or unloading of passengers with the intent to disrupt traffic.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street off the roadway behind the curb or ditch
line, constructed primarily for the use of pedestrians.
   STOP. When required, the complete cessation of movement of any vehicle.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, any stopping of any vehicle, except when
the stopping means that it shall be necessary to stop the vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the direction of any peace
officer of the town, by reason of any traffic-control sign or signal, or by
reason of any emergency.
   STREET and HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The legal boundaries of the street adjacent to or
crossing private and public properties.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing it, and when stop signs are erected as
provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of, or the parking of any vehicle on any
of the public streets of the town.
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The traffic division of the Police Department of the town,
or in the event a traffic division is not established, then the term whenever
used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Police Department of the town.
   TRAFFIC LANE. That portion of the paved roadway normally used for the
movement of traffic.
   VEHICLE. Every device used in, on or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn on any street within the corporate limits, and for
the purposes of this title, any bicycle shall be deemed a vehicle.
   VEHICULAR RIGHT-OF-WAY or PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the
immediate use of the street or roadway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH TITLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden in this title or
to fail to perform any tractor, trailer, bicycle, buggy, cart or other type of
machine or conveyance, or any person riding or driving or leading any animal on
any of the public streets of the town shall be subject to the provisions of
this title, except those provisions of this title which by their very nature
can have no application.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 70.03 APPLICATION OF TITLE.
   Every person operating, riding, propelling or driving any pushcart, tractor,
trailer, bicycle, buggy, cart or other type of machine or conveyance, or any
person riding or driving or leading any animal on any of the public streets of
the town shall be subject to the provisions of this title, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 70.04 DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT- OWNED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles on
streets shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this state, any other state, or any
county or town. It shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any provisions
of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by state statute.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or those
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic. Officers
of the Police Department or those officers as are assigned by the Chief of
Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in
conformance with traffic laws; in the event of a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department
may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of
the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
   (C)   Emergency management officials, when at the scene of an emergency
condition, may direct or assist the police or fire personnel in directing
traffic as the case may be.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 70.06 OBEDIENCE TO PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a public safety official as identified in §
70.05.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 70.07 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth below, but will be subject to the conditions
herein stated. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do the
following:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed, the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any emergency vehicle while in motion sounds
audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably
necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp
displaying a light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle. An authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (C)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons; nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others. It is not the intent or
purpose of this section to hamper or interfere with the powers and duties of
the Fire Department or Police Department in the exercise of their several
functions, or to render the town in any respect liable for any damages of or
injuries to persons or property occasioned in the exercise of these functions
by the town.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 70.08 APPROACH OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of any Police, Fire Department, emergency management
vehicle giving audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle, the driver of
every other vehicle shall immediately drive his or her vehicle to a position as
near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or curb, clear of any
intersection or highway, and shall stop and remain in that position, unless
otherwise directed by a police or traffic officer, until the Police or Fire
Department vehicle shall have passed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than one block, or to drive into or park the vehicle within one
block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Powers and duties of Director of Public Works
   
71.02   Obedience to signs
   
71.03   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
71.04   Specifications for traffic-control devices
   
71.05   Traffic-control signal legend
   
71.06   Pedestrian-control signal legend
   
71.07   Flashing lights
   
71.08   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
71.09   Interference with official traffic- control devices, signs or signals
§ 71.01 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works, whenever
authorized and directed by an order of the Board of Commissioners, to do the
following:
      (1)   Erect and place or cause to be erected and placed proper signs and
markers or other traffic-warning devices or traffic-control devices of any kind
indicating limited or prohibited parking, angle parking, parking of official
vehicles, parking of public service vehicles, one-way streets, restricted speed
areas, yield right-of-way intersections, through or arterial streets, stop
intersections, U-turns, hazardous intersections, turning at intersections,
safety zones, play streets, school zones, hospital zones, loading and unloading
zones, quiet zones, traffic-control signals exhibiting colored lights or the
words “go,” “caution” or “stop,” and other signs, markers or devices indicating
the place and manner of operating or parking vehicles within the corporate
limits of the town;
      (2)   Mark off or cause to be marked off bus stops, and to erect or cause
to be erected signs prohibiting the parking of vehicles in the bus stops;
      (3)   Erect or cause to be erected signs indicating truck routes and the
parking of vehicles of various weights and sizes;
      (4)   Mark off or cause to be marked off traffic lanes and parts of
streets indicating the direction and flow of traffic thereon;
      (5)   Erect or place or cause to be erected or placed signs, markers or
devices indicating the flow of pedestrian traffic; and
      (6)   Erect or cause to be erected all other signs, markers or devices on
any street in the town indicating the manner in which vehicles shall be
operated or parked.
   (B)   The existence of the signs, markers or devices at any place within the
corporate limits shall be prima facie evidence that the signs, markers or
devices were erected or placed by authority of the Board of Commissioners, and
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under this title.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.03 SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever any particular section in this chapter
does not state that signs are required, the section shall be effective without
signs being placed to give notice thereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.04 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to state
regulations. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location. All traffic-
control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state
law or this title shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.05 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words, “go,” “caution” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and the terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when shown following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection. However,
this provision shall not be construed as a license to a driver of a motor
vehicle approaching an intersection at an unlawful rate of speed to proceed
through the intersection. Any driver of a motor vehicle driving the vehicle at
an unlawful rate of speed at the time of his or her approach to an intersection
shall forfeit all rights lawfully to enter and proceed into and across the
intersection under the “caution” signal as provided.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian “walk”
signal.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone. However, if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns on red lights,
the vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a complete stop.
Streets on which right turns on red are prohibited are set out in Traffic
Schedule XIX.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless the
green or “go” is shown alone or unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian
“walk” signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian “walk”
signal.
   (E)   Application. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.06 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk” are in place the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk.” Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the highway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t walk.” No pedestrian shall start to cross the highway in the
direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or
her crossing on the “walk” signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the “don’t walk” signal is showing.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.07 FLASHING LIGHTS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign. In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the
crosswalk unless and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons
and property at the place.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.08 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display on or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
is in imitation of, or resembles, an official traffic-control device, sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic- control
device, sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit on any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection on private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove it or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 71.09 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Funeral processions
   
72.02   Limitations on backing
   
72.03   Driving on sidewalks
   
72.04   Moving parked cars from curb
   
72.05   Driving on barricaded street
   
72.06   Riding on motorcycles
   
72.07   Controlled-access highways
   
72.08   Headlights to be dimmed on lighted streets
   
72.09   Following fire apparatus
   
72.10   Driving over fire hose; blocking equipment
   
72.11   Driving machinery over paved streets
   
72.12   Driving within lanes
   
72.13   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicle
   
72.14   Riding on certain parts of vehicle prohibited
   
72.15   Riding in or on vehicle without consent
   
72.16   Allowing parts of body to protrude from vehicle
   
72.17   Clinging to vehicles
   
72.18   Number of passengers in front seat
   
72.19   Golf carts
   
72.20—72.24   Reserved
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
72.25   Authority to erect signs
   
72.26   Movement of traffic
   
72.27—72.34   Reserved
Speed Regulations
   
72.35   General speed regulations
   
72.36   Speed regulations on certain streets
   
72.37   Duty of driver to decrease speed
   
72.38—72.44   Reserved
Stop or Yield Regulations
   
72.45   Through streets
   
72.46   Stop intersections
   
72.47   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
   
72.48   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
72.49   Stop required when traffic obstructed
   
72.50   Yield intersections
   
72.51—72.54   Reserved
Quiet Zones; Play Streets
   
72.55   Signs indicating quiet zones
   
72.56   Establishment of play streets
   
72.57—72.64   Reserved
Turning Movements
   
72.65   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
72.66   Turning markers
   
72.67   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
72.68   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
72.69   Limitations on turning around
   
72.70   Turning right on red signal
   
72.71—72.98   Reserved
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No funeral procession containing 50 or more vehicles shall occupy or
proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief
of Police and any other regulations as are set forth herein.
   (B)   Every vehicle in a funeral procession must have its headlights turned
on for identification purposes. The procession shall travel as close together
as possible in line, using the far right lane on laned highways. The funeral
procession shall be routed along the safest direct route to the place of
burial.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break through a funeral
procession or try to enter into the procession by passing from the rear of the
procession, or otherwise interfering with the continuity of the procession.
Cautious and respectful passing of the procession is not prohibited when two or
more lanes are provided for travel in the same direction. However, it is
prohibited when there is only one lane.
   (D)   Vehicles approaching a funeral procession from the opposite direction
should cautiously and respectfully continue.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.02 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to back the vehicle into
any intersection or over a crosswalk and, in any event or at any place, to back
the vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety and unless the driver
shall have given ample warning, either by hand, horn or other signal, to those
who may be behind.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.03 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive the vehicle within
any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.04 MOVING PARKED CARS FROM CURB.
   The driver of a vehicle parked on a street, when moving the vehicle from the
curb, shall move the vehicle out from the curb in the direction in which the
vehicle is headed; or, if the vehicle is parked at an angle with the curb, he
or she shall back the vehicle out at that angle until he or she has cleared
other parked vehicles, at which time he or she may proceed in the desired
direction.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.05 DRIVING ON BARRICADED STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle into or on any
alley or street when the street or alley has been barricaded by an employee of
the town.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.06 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular
seat attached thereto. The operator shall not carry any other person nor shall
any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is designed to
carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride on the
permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or on another seat
firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.07 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at the entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.08 HEADLIGHTS TO BE DIMMED ON LIGHTED STREETS.
   When any motor vehicle is operated on any of the lighted streets within the
town the headlights on the motor vehicle shall be operated on dim lights.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.09 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 500 feet, or to drive or park the vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.10 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE; BLOCKING EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive an engine, train or any motor
vehicle over the fire hose or any other equipment of the town or any other Fire
Department at any time, or to block a firefighting apparatus or other equipment
from its source of supply regardless of its distance from the fire.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.11 DRIVING MACHINERY OVER PAVED STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive over any hard-surfaced asphalt-
paved street, any agricultural machinery, such as harrows or like equipment,
with sharp blades, discs or spikes that will drag on the pavement; or any
traction engine with caterpillar wheels, or any heavy piece of machinery that
will in any way damage or injure the paving.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.12 DRIVING WITHIN LANES.
   All vehicles driving on a roadway which has been clearly marked with traffic
lanes shall be driven, as nearly as practicable, entirely within a single lane
and shall not be moved out of the lane until the driver has first ascertained
that the movement can be made with safety.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.13 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight from any motor
vehicle while the motor vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.14 RIDING ON CERTAIN PARTS OF VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on any portion of a motor
vehicle not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of duty of
his or her employment or to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces
intended for freight or merchandise.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.15 RIDING IN OR ON VEHICLE WITHOUT CONSENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, jump on or ride on any vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver thereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.16 ALLOWING PARTS OF BODY TO PROTRUDE FROM VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding in a motor vehicle to allow any
part of his or her body to protrude beyond the limits of the vehicle in which
he or she is riding, except when necessary to give signals as are required by
law.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.17 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hang on to any moving vehicle. It
shall be unlawful for any person riding on any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster,
sled, roller skates or any toy vehicle, to attach a bicycle, motorcycle,
coaster, sled, toy vehicle or himself or herself to any moving vehicle on any
roadway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.18 NUMBER OF PASSENGERS IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the
front or driver’s seat.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.19 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Legislative purpose. The legislative purpose and policy of this
section is to promote public health, safety, and welfare by setting forth
regulations governing the operation of golf carts on the public streets within
the town.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings:
      DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle
issued by the State of North Carolina or any other state.
      FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in
an amount not less than the amount required by North Carolina law for motor
vehicles within the state.
      GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes that is not capable of exceeding a
speed of 20 mph.
      OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart on the public streets within the town.
   (C)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside a public street
with a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph.
      (2)   Golf carts may cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than
35 mph provided that once such a road has been crossed, the golf cart shall
only be operated on streets with a speed limit of 35 mph or less.
      (3)   The operator of a golf cart shall be responsible for all liability
associated with the operation of the golf cart and shall have liability
insurance coverage for the use of the golf cart in an amount not less than the
amount required by North Carolina law for motor vehicles within the state.
      (4)   Any person operating a golf cart shall be at least 16 years of age
or older. No person shall operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed to
drive upon the streets, roads and highways of North Carolina in accordance with
the license.
      (5)   Any person operating a golf cart on the public streets within the
town shall comply with all applicable state and local laws, regulations and
ordinances, including but not limited to those banning the possession and use
of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs. In addition, no golf cart containing
an open container of alcohol shall be operated on a public street.
      (6)   An operator of a golf cart shall not allow the number of people in
the golf cart to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. The
operator shall not allow passengers to ride on any part of a golf cart not
designed to carry passengers including that part of a golf cart designed to
carry golf bags.
      (7)   A golf cart shall not be operated at a speed greater than
reasonable and prudent for the existing conditions and in no instance shall a
golf cart be operated at a speed greater than 20 mph.
      (8)   Golf carts shall be operated at the right edge of the roadway and
shall yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (9)   Golf carts shall be parked in compliance with the town’s parking
regulations as set forth in Chapter 73 herein.
      (10)   Golf carts being operated on the public streets shall have all of
the safety equipment installed by the manufacturer including a rear view mirror
and a rear triangle reflector of the type required under North Carolina law
      (11)   Golf carts without lights shall only be operated during daylight
hours. Golf carts meeting the requirements set forth below may be operated at
any time:
         (a)   Golf carts having two operating headlights, one on each side of
the front of the cart, and two operating tail lights, one on each side of the
rear of the cart, with all four lights visible from a distance of 500 feet; and
         (b)   If a mechanical turn signal indicator is not installed on the
golf cart then hand signals are required for turns.
   (D)   Registration.
      (1)   Before being operated on a public street, the owner of a golf cart
shall have been issued a registration sticker by the town that shall be visible
while the golf cart is being operated.
      (2)   Each golf cart operator shall ensure that their valid driver’s
license and proof of liability insurance coverage shall be always with them
while operating the golf cart.
      (3)   Lost or stolen registration stickers are the responsibility of the
owner and shall be replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public
street.
   (E)   Enforcement. An operator violating the motor vehicle laws of North
Carolina which also apply to golf carts registered under this section shall be
subject to the penalties prescribed in North Carolina law for said violations.
(Ord. 22-8, passed 9-12-2022)
§§ 72.20—72.24 RESERVED.
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 72.25 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley there shall be
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.26 MOVEMENT OF TRAFFIC.
   On those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in
Traffic Schedule XX, hereby made a part hereof, vehicular traffic shall move
only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic
are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 72.27—72.34 RESERVED.
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 72.35 GENERAL SPEED REGULATIONS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. Except as
otherwise provided in § 72.36, it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in
excess of 35 mph inside the corporate limits.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.36 SPEED REGULATIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below on the streets or portions of streets of the state highway system
listed in each designated Traffic Schedule hereby made a part hereof:
      (1)   Twenty miles per hour, Schedule I;
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour, Schedule II;
      (3)   Thirty miles per hour, Schedule III-A;
      (4)   Forty miles per hour, Schedule IV;
      (5)   Forty-five miles per hour, Schedule V;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour, Schedule VI; and
      (7)   Fifty-five miles per hour, Schedule VII.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below on the streets or portions of streets, not a part of the state
highway system, listed in each designated schedule, hereby made a part hereof:
      (1)   Twenty miles per hour, Schedule VIII;
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour, Schedule IX;
      (3)   Thirty miles per hour, Schedule X-A;
      (4)   Thirty-five mile per hour, Schedule X-B;
      (5)   Forty miles per hour, Schedule XI;
      (6)   Forty-five miles per hour, Schedule XII;
      (7)   Fifty miles per hour, Schedule XIII; and
      (8)   Fifty-five miles per hour, Schedule XIV.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.37 DUTY OF DRIVER TO DECREASE SPEED.
   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the limits set out in the
Traffic Schedules shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling on any narrow or
winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any other person, vehicle
or other conveyance on or entering the highway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 72.38—72.44 RESERVED.
STOP OR YIELD REGULATIONS
§ 72.45 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Those streets and parts of streets described in Traffic Schedule XXI,
hereby made a part hereof, are declared to be through streets for the purpose
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street,
there shall be a stop or yield right-of-way sign on each street intersecting
the through street or intersecting a portion thereof described and designated
as a through street by any ordinance, unless traffic at the intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic-control signals. However, at the
intersection of two through streets or at the intersection of a through street
and a heavy traffic street not so designated, or at the intersection of two
other streets neither of which is designated a through street, signs shall be
erected at the approaches of either of the streets.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.46 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The Board of Commissioners may determine and designate intersections where
particular hazards exist on other than through streets, and may determine
whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to the stop intersection,
and shall erect a stop sign at every place where a stop is required. These
places are specified in Traffic Schedule XXII, hereby made a part hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.47 VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected as herein authorized at or near the entrance to
any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or in the event there is no
crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line. If there is no stop line,
the driver shall stop at a point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic-control signal.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.48 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to
avoid collision. Upon entering the roadway, the driver shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.49 STOP REQUIRED WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.50 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Those streets and parts of streets described in Traffic Schedule XXIII are
hereby declared to be through streets for the purpose of this section. When
yield right-of-way signs are placed, erected or installed on streets, roads or
highways intersecting a through street at the entrance thereto, or at the
enhance of any intersection, every driver of a motor vehicle shall, in
obedience to the sign, slow down and yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
movement on the main-traveled or through street which is approaching so as to
arrive at the intersection at approximately the same time as the vehicle
entering the through street.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 72.51—72.54 RESERVED.
QUIET ZONES; PLAY STREETS
§ 72.55 SIGNS INDICATING QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed or installed indicating a zone of
quiet, no person operating any vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or
other warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.56 ESTABLISHMENT OF PLAY STREETS.
   The Board of Commissioners may declare any street or part thereof a play
street and shall place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway. Whenever
authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play
street, barricades are placed and the street is closed to all traffic; no
person shall drive a vehicle on the street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within the closed area, and
then any driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving on the street or
portion thereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 72.57—72.64 RESERVED.
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 72.65 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of the
centerline where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection
the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered. All vehicles shall pass beyond the
center of the intersection before attempting a left turn; and
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at the intersection shall approach
the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in that direction on the roadway being entered.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.66 TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons or other indicators are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indicators.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.67 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place
proper signs at the intersections. The making of the turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
it shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the
turns are permitted. When signs are so placed, it shall be unlawful to make a
turning movement in violation thereof at the intersections described in Traffic
Schedules XV, XVI, XVII and XVIII, hereby incorporated herein.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.68 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
sign.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.69 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction on any street in a business district, and shall not on any
other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety and
without interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.70 TURNING RIGHT ON RED SIGNAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to make a right turn while the traffic
light is emitting a red light for the traffic moving on the street in the
direction that the approaching vehicle is traveling at the street intersections
designated in Traffic Schedule XIX.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 72.71—72.98 RESERVED.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
72.55 shall constitute a traffic infraction, and shall be punished by a penalty
of $250 per violation.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Parking within parking space
   
73.02   Standing or parking close to curb
   
73.03   Angle parking
   
73.04   Lights on parked vehicles
   
73.05   Stopping in streets
   
73.06   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
73.07   Parking parallel to curb
   
73.08   Parking in alleys
   
73.09   Displaying, washing, repairing or storing vehicles
   
73.10   Standing or parking on one-way roadways
   
73.11   Hazardous or congested places
   
73.12   Moving vehicle of another to prohibited place
   
73.13   Prohibited parking at all times on certain streets
   
73.14   Prohibited parking at certain times on certain streets
   
73.15   Limited parking on certain streets
   
73.16   Parking by handicapped persons
   
73.17   Parking of oversized vehicles
   
73.18   Parking vehicles with attached trailer
   
73.19   Reserved
Loading and Unloading
   
73.20   Permits for loading or unloading at angle to curb
   
73.21   Loading and unloading zones
   
73.22   School loading zones
   
73.23   Commercial loading zones
   
73.24—73.29   Reserved
Public Carriers
   
73.30   Public carrier stops and stands
   
73.31   Stopping, standing and parking of buses and taxicabs
   
73.32   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
73.33—73.39   Reserved
Administration and Enforcement
   
73.40   Parking signs required
   
73.41   Notice of illegal parking; duty of police
   
73.42   Operator to comply with chapter; effect of proof of ownership
   
73.43   Impoundment
   
73.44—73.98   Reserved
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 PARKING WITHIN PARKING SPACE.
   All vehicles shall be parked completely inside marked spaces and shall not
extend over the parking lane into the traffic lane, or extend the front or rear
of the vehicle beyond the starting or ending marks of the space into the
adjacent parking space or maneuvering space.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.02 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon those streets described in Traffic Schedule XXVII, which have been
marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at
the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or
markings.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.04 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Any lighted headlamps on a parked vehicle shall be depressed, dimmed or
turned off. The displaying of lights on a vehicle, when lawfully parked at
night on a street, shall not be required when there is sufficient light to
reveal any person within a distance of 200 feet from the street.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.05 STOPPING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to stop the vehicle in or
on any street, except for the purpose of parking as provided in this chapter,
unless the stop is made necessary by the approach of fire apparatus, by the
stopping of a public conveyance, by the reason of traffic signals, in the
exercise of the rights of turning at an intersection or upon entering an
intersection, by the passing of another vehicle, for a pedestrian, by reason of
any emergency, or by order of a police officer.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.06 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 12 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection unless signs or
markings indicate a lesser distance;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing. However,
where permanent structures are located closer than 50 feet, parking is
permitted in front of the structures unless otherwise prohibited and if the
parked vehicle will not block the view in either direction of a locomotive or
train;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; and
      (15)   On any part of the paved portion of any street, the width of the
paved portion of which is 18 feet or less.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb the distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.07 PARKING PARALLEL TO CURB.
   In residential areas and other areas where parking spaces are not marked on
the pavement and not designated as no parking zones, all vehicles shall be
parked parallel to the curb or the edge of the pavement and as far to the right
of the centerline as possible, leaving at least 22 feet of clear unobstructed
roadway for the safe passage of other vehicles. At no time may a vehicle be
parked directly across the street from another vehicle unless there will be 22
feet of roadway open between the two vehicles.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.08 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle within an alley, in such a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.09 DISPLAYING, WASHING, REPAIRING OR STORING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle on any street
for the principal purposes of the following:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Weighing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when the storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other vehicle;
   (D)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected;
   (E)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another; and
   (F)   Advertising.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.10 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction on either roadway, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle on the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are erected
to permit the standing or parking.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.11 HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in the designated place.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.12 MOVING VEHICLE OF ANOTHER TO PROHIBITED PLACE.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned or controlled by that person into
any prohibited area, or sufficiently away from a curb to make the parking
unlawful.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.13 PROHIBITED PARKING AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time on any of the streets described in Traffic Schedule XXXI, hereby
made a part hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.14 PROHIBITED PARKING AT CERTAIN TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
during prohibited times on any of the streets described in Traffic Schedules
XXXII through XXXVI, hereby made a part hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.15 LIMITED PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
for longer than the times specified within the district or on any of the
streets described in Traffic Schedules XXXII through XXXVI, hereby made a part
hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.16 PARKING BY HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice of a handicapped person parking
space, all persons other than those handicapped as defined in G.S. § 20-37.5
are prohibited from parking a vehicle in any parking space Monday through
Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., as described in Traffic Schedule XXXIX
hereby made a part hereof.
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice of a handicapped person parking
space, all persons other than those persons handicapped as defined in G.S. §
20-37.5 are prohibited from parking a vehicle in any parking space described in
Traffic Schedule XXXIX, hereby made apart hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.17 PARKING OF OVERSIZED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicles in excess of 80 inches
in width or in excess of 30 feet in length, or any trailer, on the streets
within the corporate limits of the town at any time except when engaged in
loading and unloading, for emergency services or for temporary use at
construction sites during the period of active construction.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to industrial, commercial and
business districts established under the Town Zoning Ordinance during the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. during the standard of time then in effect.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.18 PARKING VEHICLES WITH ATTACHED TRAILER.
   Any vehicle with an attached trailer that is in compliance with all sections
of Chapter 73 of the code of ordinances of the town shall be permitted to park
on the street provided the vehicle has a warning cone, conforming to the
appearance criteria of the manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways published by the United States Department of
Transportation and any supplement to that manual adopted by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, placed at the front corner of the vehicle and at
the rear corner of the trailer nearest the travel lane to warn motorists of a
potential danger.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.19 RESERVED.
LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 73.20 PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB.
   The Chief of Police is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the term and conditions of the permit. The
permit may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to the
owner of the vehicle, and shall grant to the person the privilege as therein
stated and authorized herein. It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other
person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.21 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this chapter, and when signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.22 SCHOOL LOADING ZONES.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in Traffic Schedule XXVIII hereby
made a part hereof, are hereby designated as school loading and unloading
zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein for any purpose
other than the expeditious loading or unloading of school passengers, and then
only for a period not to exceed ten minutes.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.23 COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in Traffic Schedule XXIX, hereby
made a part hereof, are hereby designated as commercial loading and unloading
zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein during the hours
of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., except on Sundays or holidays, for any purpose other
than the expeditious unloading and delivery, or pickup and loading, of
materials and goods, and then only for a period not to exceed 15 minutes.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 73.24—73.29 RESERVED.
PUBLIC CARRIERS
§ 73.30 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as specified in
Traffic Schedule XXX, hereby made a part hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.31 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle on any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated as provided in
Traffic Schedule XXX. The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle on any
street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so
designated, except in case of an emergency. The operator of a bus shall enter a
bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone on a public street in such a
manner that the bus, when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage,
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the vehicle not farther
than 12 inches from the curb, and the bus approximately parallel to the curb,
so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (B)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle on any
street at any place other than a taxi stand so designated as provided in
Traffic Schedule XXX. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a
taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking
regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.32 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when the stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed. However, the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the, purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 73.33—73.39 RESERVED.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 73.40 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other chapter any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited in designated streets, there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof. No parking regulations shall be effective unless the
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.41 NOTICE OF ILLEGAL PARKING; DUTY OF POLICE.
   If any vehicle shall be found parked in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or other police
officers or code enforcement officers of the town to attach to the vehicle a
notice to the owner or operator thereof, if the owner or operator is absent, or
to deliver to the owner or operator, if he or she is present, a notice to the
effect that the vehicle has been parked in violation of a provision of this
chapter and directing the owner or operator to report to the town office in
regard to the violation.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 21-5, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 73.42 OPERATOR TO COMPLY WITH CHAPTER; EFFECT OF PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   The person actually operating or in control of the operation of the vehicle
at the time that the vehicle is parked shall be charged with the duty of
complying with the provisions of this chapter; provided, that proof of
ownership of any vehicle found, parked in violation of this chapter shall be
prima-facie evidence that the owner parked the vehicle.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 73.43 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Police officers or code enforcement officers are hereby authorized to
remove a vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place
of safety, or to a garage designated or maintained by the Police Department or
otherwise maintained by this town, under the circumstances enumerated below:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended on any bridge, viaduct or
causeway, or in any other place where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle on a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When any parked vehicle is left unattended on a street and is
parked illegally so as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in
division (A) above, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from the
registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof,
the officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice to the owner of
the fact of the removal and the reasons therefor and of the place to which the
vehicle has been removed.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 21-5, passed 5-3-2021)
§§ 73.44—73.98 RESERVED.
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   An owner or operator of a vehicle may, within 48 hours from the time the
notice referred to in §
73.41 was attached to the vehicle or delivered to the owner or operator, pay to
the town, as a civil penalty for the offense indicated in the notice, the sum
of $5; provided, that for violations of limited parking prescribed in § 73.15,
the civil penalty shall be $5. Failure of the owner or operator of the vehicle
to appear and pay the penalty within 48 hours shall subject the owner or
operator to the penalties provided in §
10.08.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TRUCKS AND TRUCK ROUTES
Section
   
74.01   Truck routes
   
74.02   Tractor-trailer units; stop
   
74.03   Vehicle weights
§ 74.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   All trucks and trailers of greater capacity than one and one-half tons
entering the town destined to any point outside of the town and not taking on
or discharging any goods, wares or merchandise within the town limits, shall
travel exclusively on the routes designated as truck routes, and over those
truck routes as shall constitute the shortest and most direct route from the
point of entrance into the town and to the point of departure from the town.
The streets hereby designated as truck routes are those listed in Traffic
Schedule XXIV, made a part hereof.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall cause to be erected and maintained
at points where through truck routes enter the town and at all junction points
and turns where necessary, and at all approaches to the parts of streets on
which trucks are prohibited, signs of the dimensions and at the locations as
shall be approved by him or her, directing truck traffic in accordance with
this section.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 74.02 TRACTOR-TRAILER UNITS; STOP.
   All tractor-trailer units are prohibited from stopping for purposes of
loading or unloading or for any other purpose, except in order to obey traffic
signals, on the streets or portions of streets described in Traffic Schedule
XXV, hereby made a part hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 74.03 VEHICLE WEIGHTS.
   Vehicles having a gross vehicle weight in excess of one-half ton are
prohibited from driving over or on any of the streets or parts of streets or
alleys described in Traffic Schedule XXVI, hereby made a part hereof.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 75: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
75.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
75.02   Safety zones
   
75.03   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalk
   
75.04   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
75.05   Prohibited crossings
   
75.06   Crossing at right angles
   
75.07   When pedestrian shall yield
   
75.08   Walking along roadway
   
75.09   Soliciting rides or business
   
75.10   Drivers to exercise due care
§ 75.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore
declared in §§
71.05 and
71.06, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.02 SAFETY ZONES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to establish safety zones of kind
and character and at the places as he or she may deem necessary for the
protection of pedestrians.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.03 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, and
at marked crosswalks established at locations other than intersections and
described in Traffic Schedule XXXVII, and when appropriate signs have been
erected, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or
stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when the pedestrian is on the half of the roadway on which the
vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger; but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A
pedestrians’s right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and
as stated in §
75.07.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.04 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, on the right half of
crosswalks.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITED CROSSINGS.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, no pedestrian shall cross at any place other than in a crosswalk. No
pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in the central
business district.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.06 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb, or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.07 WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles on the roadway. Any pedestrian crossing a roadway
at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been
provided shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles on the roadway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.08 WALKING ALONG ROADWAY.
   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and on an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and on a highway shall when practicable, walk only on
the left side of the roadway or its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach
from the opposite direction.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.09 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle. No person shall stand
on or in proximity to a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting the
watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street or highway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 75.10 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian on any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person on a roadway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 76: BICYCLES
Section
   
76.01   Effect of regulations
   
76.02   Traffic laws applicable
   
76.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
76.04   Riding on bicycles
   
76.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
76.06   Speed
   
76.07   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
76.08   Carrying articles
   
76.09   Parking
   
76.10   Riding on sidewalks
   
76.11   Lamps and other equipment
   
76.12   Registration
§ 76.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter. These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated on any street or on any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE.
   Every person riding a bicycle on a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this chapter, and except as to those provisions of laws
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized
signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-turn is permitted, no
person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of the sign, except
where the person dismounts from the bicycle to make the turn, in which event
the person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. It
shall be unlawful for the operator of a bicycle, when on any street, to carry
any person on the handlebars or frame of the bicycle; and it shall be unlawful
for any person to ride on any bicycle in this manner.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   Every person operating a bicycle on a roadway shall ride as near to the
right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. Persons riding
bicycles on a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast except on paths or
parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. Whenever a
usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle
riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, on approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area; and on entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.08 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.09 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle on a street other than on the roadway against
the curb, or on the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or against a
building, or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least obstruction
to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.10 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle on a sidewalk within the central
business district.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when the signs are
in place no person shall disobey them.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle on a sidewalk, that person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.11 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light, visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
which shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person
use on a bicycle, any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 76.12 REGISTRATION.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Twenty mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
II.   Twenty-five mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
III-A.   Thirty mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
III-B.   Thirty-five mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
IV.   Forty mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
V.   Forty-five mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
VI.   Fifty mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
VII.   Fifty-five mile per hour speed limit, state highway system
   
VIII.   Twenty mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
VIII-A.   Five mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
VIII-B.   Ten mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
VIII-C.   Fifteen mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
IX.   Twenty-five mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
X-A.   Thirty mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
X-B.   Thirty-five mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
XI.   Forty mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
XII.   Forty-five mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
XIII.   Fifty mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
XIV.   Fifty-five mile per hour speed limit, town streets
   
XV.   Left turns to be made left of center
   
XVI.   No left turns
   
XVII.   No right turn
   
XVIII.   No U-turns
   
XIX.   Right turn on red signal prohibited
   
XX.   One-way streets and alleys
   
XXI.   Through streets
   
XXII.   Stop intersections
   
XXIII.   Yield right-of-way intersections
   
XXIV.   Truck routes
   
XXV.   Tractor-trailer units prohibited
   
XXVI.   Vehicles with gross weight greater than one-half ton prohibited
   
XXVII.   Angle parking
   
XXVIII.   School loading zones
   
XXIX.   Commercial freight loading zones
   
XXX.   Passenger loading zones
   
XXXI.   Parking prohibited at all times where marked
   
XXXII.   No parking between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   
XXXIII.   No weekend parking
   
XXXIV.   Two hour parking
   
XXXV.   One hour parking
   
XXXVI.   Thirty minute parking
   
XXXVII.   Crosswalks
   
XXXVIII.   No parking between 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   
XXXIX.   Handicapped parking
   
XXXX.   Through traffic prohibited
SCHEDULE I. TWENTY MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE II. TWENTY-FIVE MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE III-A. THIRTY MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE III-B. THIRTY-FIVE MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
 
Highway           Speed Limit
Country Club Road 35 mph
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE IV. FORTY MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE V. FORTY-FIVE MILE PER SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
 
Highway                                                            Speed Limit
Persimmon Road between 0.872 mile south of US 17 centerline and
0.30 mile south of US 17 centerline, in Carolina Shores, per NCDOT 45 mph
request
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 22-3, passed 3-14-2022)
SCHEDULE VI. FIFTY MILES PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE VII. FIFTY-FIVE MILES PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
 
Highway         Speed Limit
Thomasboro Road 55
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE VIII. TWENTY MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
Town Street Speed Limit
Town Street                Speed Limit
Bulkhead Bend              20 mph
Cable Lake Circle          20 mph
Calabash Lakes Boulevard   20 mph
Calistoga Lake Court       20 mph
Canyon Creek Court         20 mph
Carriage Harbor Lake Court 20 mph
Cass Lake Drive            20 mph
Cass Lake Road             20 mph
Cayuga Lake Court          20 mph
Cedar Creek Lane           20 mph
Chadsey Lake Drive         20 mph
Champion Creek Drive       20 mph
Club Creek Lane            20 mph
Coffee Mill Creek Lane     20 mph
Coleman Lake Drive         20 mph
Coleto Creek Lane          20 mph
Creek Harbor Drive         20 mph
Crescent Lake Drive        20 mph
Cup Lake Court             20 mph
Cypress Lake Drive         20 mph
Cypress Lake Lane          20 mph
Cypress Springs Court      20 mph
Freeboard Lane             20 mph
Harbor Creek Way           20 mph
Lighthouse Cove Loop       20 mph
Pilot House Place          20 mph
Wave Lane                  20 mph
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 16-5, passed 7-14-2016; Am. Ord. 22-5,
passed 8-15-2022; Am. Ord. 22-11, passed 10-10-2022)
SCHEDULE VIII-A. FIVE MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
 
Town Street Speed Limit
Gate 1      5 mph
Recycle Way 5 mph
 
(Ord. 16-5, passed 7-14-2016; Am. Ord. 22-11, passed 10-10-2022)
SCHEDULE VIII-B. TEN MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
 Speed Limit
        Speed Limit
Gate 2  10 mph
Gate 3  10 mph
Gate 4  10 mph
Gate 5  10 mph
Gate 6  10 mph
Gate 7  10 mph
Gate 8  10 mph
Gate 9  10 mph
Gate 10 10 mph
Gate 11 10 mph
Gate 12 10 mph
 
(Ord. 16-5, passed 7-14-2016; Am. Ord. 22-11, passed 10-10-2022)
SCHEDULE VIII-C. FIFTEEN MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
Town Street Speed Limit
Town Street      Speed Limit
Court 2          15 mph
Court 3          15 mph
Court 4          15 mph
Court 5          15 mph
Court 6          15 mph
Court 7          15 mph
Court 8          15 mph
Court 9          15 mph
Court 10         15 mph
Court 11         15 mph
Court 12         15 mph
Emerson Bay Road 15 mph
Medical Park Way 15 mph
Northwest Drive  15 mph
 
(Ord. 16-5, passed 7-14-2016; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 2-9-2017; Am. Ord. 22-11,
passed 10-10-2022)
SCHEDULE IX. TWENTY-FIVE MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
Town Street Speed Limit
Town Street                                                         Speed Limit
All town-maintained roads in the community of The Farm at Brunswick 25 mph
Arden Place                                                         25 mph
Barnowl Court                                                       25 mph
Bayberry Circle                                                     25 mph
Birdie Court                                                        25 mph
Bogie Lane                                                          25 mph
Bow Court                                                           25 mph
Brassie Drive                                                       25 mph
Buoy Court                                                          25 mph
Calabash Court                                                      25 mph
Calabash Drive                                                      25 mph
Canal Way Court                                                     25 mph
Captains Court                                                      25 mph
Carolina Shores Drive                                               25 mph
Carolina Shores Parkway                                             25 mph
Cedar Court                                                         25 mph
Cleek Court                                                         25 mph
Clubview Lane                                                       25 mph
Crane Court                                                         25 mph
Deer Run Road                                                       25 mph
Dove Court                                                          25 mph
Downing Glen Place                                                  25 mph
Eagle Court                                                         25 mph
East Pine Court                                                     25 mph
Egret Court                                                         25 mph
Fairway Court                                                       25 mph
Flag Court                                                          25 mph
Golfcrest Court                                                     25 mph
Golfview Court                                                      25 mph
Gull Court                                                          25 mph
Gumwood Drive                                                       25 mph
Heron Court                                                         25 mph
Inlet Place                                                         25 mph
Lakeview Court                                                      25 mph
Landing Court                                                       25 mph
Lighthouse Cove Loop                                                25 mph
Mainsail Court                                                      25 mph
Mashie Court                                                        25 mph
Midiron Court                                                       25 mph
Moss Court                                                          25 mph
Myrtle Court                                                        25 mph
Myrtlewood Drive                                                    25 mph
N. Clubview Lane                                                    25 mph
Nautical Lane                                                       25 mph
Niblick Court                                                       25 mph
Nicholas Drive                                                      25 mph
Oakbark Court                                                       25 mph
Palm Court                                                          25 mph
Palmer Drive                                                        25 mph
Par Court                                                           25 mph
Pelican Court                                                       25 mph
Petrel Court                                                        25 mph
Pinebark Court                                                      25 mph
Pineridge Court                                                     25 mph
Pinewood Drive                                                      25 mph
Plainview Court                                                     25 mph
Planters Row Lane                                                   25 mph
Port Court                                                          25 mph
Putter Place                                                        25 mph
Putting Lane                                                        25 mph
Sage Court                                                          25 mph
Sand Dollar Court                                                   25 mph
Sand Dollar Drive                                                   25 mph
Sandpiper Court                                                     25 mph
Sandy Court                                                         25 mph
Sea Gull Court                                                      25 mph
Songbird Court                                                      25 mph
Starboard Court                                                     25 mph
Sun Court                                                           25 mph
Sunfield Drive                                                      25 mph
Sunfish Court                                                       25 mph
Sunrise Court                                                       25 mph
Swan Court                                                          25 mph
Swamp Fox Drive                                                     25 mph
Tern Place                                                          25 mph
Thicketwood Drive                                                   25 mph
Thrush Court                                                        25 mph
Topsail Court                                                       25 mph
Waterview Lane                                                      25 mph
Watson Avenue                                                       25 mph
Wave Lane                                                           25 mph
Wedge Court                                                         25 mph
West Pine Court                                                     25 mph
Yellow Jacket Court                                                 25 mph
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 17-7, passed 5-4-2017; Am. Ord. 18-3,
passed 9-14-2017; Am. Ord. 22-11, passed 10-10-2022; Am. Ord. 24-1, passed 2-
12-2024)
SCHEDULE X-A. THIRTY MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 17-7, passed 5-4-2017; Am. Ord. 22-11,
passed 10-10-2022)
SCHEDULE X-B. THIRTY-FIVE MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XI. FORTY MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XII. FORTY-FIVE MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XIII. FIFTY MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XIV. FIFTY-FIVE MILE PER HOUR SPEED LIMIT, TOWN STREETS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XV. LEFT TURNS TO BE MADE LEFT OF CENTER.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XVI. NO LEFT TURNS.
 
No Left Turns
Emerson Bay Road at US 17
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 2-9-2017)
SCHEDULE XVII. NO RIGHT TURN.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XVIII. NO U-TURNS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XIX. RIGHT TURN ON RED SIGNAL PROHIBITED.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XX. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
One-Way Streets and Alleys
One-Way Streets and Alleys
Calabash Lakes Boulevard from Thomasboro Road westward 830ft.
Carolina Farms Boulevard from Highway 17 eastward 125ft.
Carolina Farms Boulevard from Thomasboro Road westward 125ft.
Carolina Shores Parkway from Country Club Road eastward 400ft.
Carolina Shores Parkway from Country Club Road westward 275ft.
Carolina Shores Parkway from Persimmon Road westward 400ft.
Clubview Lane from Thomasboro Road westward 180ft.
Lighthouse Cove Loop from Thomasboro Road westward 80ft.
Pinewood Drive from Thomasboro Road westward 300ft.
Sunfield Drive from Persimmon Road eastward 325ft.
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXI. THROUGH STREETS.
Through Streets
Through Streets
Cable Lake Circle at Coffee Mill Creek Lane
Cable Lake Circle at Canyon Creek Court
Cable Lake Circle at Club Creek Lane
Calabash Drive at Brassie Drive
Calabash Drive at Calabash Court
Calabash Drive at Carolina Shores Parkway
Calabash Drive at Fairway Court
Calabash Drive at Golfcrest Court
Calabash Drive at Niblick Court
Calabash Drive at Putter Place
Calabash Drive at Sand Dollar Court
Calabash Drive at Sand Dollar Drive
Calabash Drive at Topsail Court
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Cable Lake Circle
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Canyon Creek Court
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Cass Lake Drive
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Cedar Creek Lane
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Chadsey Lake Drive
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Club Creek Lane
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Coleman Lake Drive
Calabash Lakes Boulevard at Coleto Creek Lane
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Cattle Run Lane
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Corn Planters Circle
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Downing Glen Place
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Farmers Rest Court
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Field Planters Circle
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Haystack Way
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Picket Fence Lane
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Planters Row Lane
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Slippery Rock Way
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Thomasboro Road
Carolina Farms Boulevard at Wheatfield Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Arden Place
Carolina Shores Drive at Geek Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Crane Court
Carolina Shores Drive at East Pine Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Egret Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Golfview Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Heron Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Lakeview Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Midiron Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Pelican Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Petrol Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Sandpiper Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Sunrise Court
Carolina Shores Drive at Tern Place
Carolina Shores Parkway at Bayberry Circle
Carolina Shores Parkway at Buoy Court
Carolina Shores Parkway at Calabash Drive
Carolina Shores Parkway at Canal Way Court
Carolina Shores Parkway at Inlet Place
Carolina Shores Parkway at Oakbark Court
Carolina Shores Parkway at Persimmon Road
Carolina Shores Parkway at Sage Court
Carolina Shores Parkway at Sunfish Court
Carolina Shores Parkway at Swamp Fox Drive
Carolina Shores Parkway at Yellow Jacket Court
Clubview Lane at Gull Court
Clubview Lane at Nautical Lane
Clubview Lane at Swan Court
Country Club Road at Beach Drive
Country Club Road at Gate 1
Country Club Road at Gate 2
Country Club Road at Gate 3
Country Club Road at Gate 4
Country Club Road at Gate 5
Country Club Road at Gate 6
Country Club Road at Gate 7
Country Club Road at Gate 8
Country Club Road at Gate 10
Country Club Road at Gate 11
Country Club Road at Gate 12
Country Club Road at Northwest Drive
Emerson Bay Road at Medical Park Way
Lighthouse Cove Loop at Lighthouse Cove Loop (intersecting segment)
Lighthouse Cove Loop at Wave Lane
N. Clubview Lane at Eagle Court
N. Clubview Lane at Mainsail Court
N. Clubview Lane at Thrush Court
N. Clubview Lane at Waterview Lane
Nicholas Drive at Bogie Lane
Nicholas Drive at Palmer Drive
Persimmon Road at Carolina Shores Parkway
Pilot House Place at Bulkhead Bend
Pilot House Place at Freeboard Lane
Pinewood Drive at Deer Run Road
Pinewood Drive at Myrtlewood Drive
Pinewood Drive at Sunfield Drive
Pinewood Drive at Thicketwood Drive
Sunfield Drive at Mashie Court
Sunfield Drive at Persimmon Road
Sunfield Drive at Pinewood Drive
Sunfield Drive at Sun Court
Swamp Fox Drive at Landing Court
Swamp Fox Drive at Moss Court
Swamp Fox Drive at Pineridge Court
Thomasboro at Pinewood Drive
Waterview Lane at Cedar Court
Waterview Lane at Nautical Lane
Waterview Lane at Palm Court
Waterview Lane at Palmer Drive
Watson Avenue at Bogie Lane
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 2-9-2017; Am. Ord. 18-3,
passed 9-14-2017; Am. Ord. 20-2, passed 12-5-2019)
SCHEDULE XXII. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 16-5, passed 7-14-2016; Am. Ord. 17-4,
passed 2-9-2017; Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 9-14-2017; Am. Ord. 20-2, passed 12-5-
2019; Am. Ord. 22-11, passed 10-10-2022)
SCHEDULE XXIII. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
Yield Right-of-Way Intersections
Yield Right-of-Way Intersections
Gate 3 entryway at Gate 3 access road
Gate 4 entry way at Gate 4 access road
Gate 5 entryway at Gate 5 access road
Gate 6 entryway at Gate 6 access road
Gate 7 entryway at Gate 7 access road
Gate 8 entryway at Gate 8 access road
Gate 10 entryway at Gate 10 access road
Gate 11 entryway at Gate 11 access road
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXIV. TRUCK ROUTES.
 
Truck Routes
Country Club Road
Persimmon Road
Thomasboro Road
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXV. TRACTOR-TRAILER UNITS PROHIBITED.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXVI. VEHICLES WITH GROSS WEIGHT GREATER THAN ONE-HALF TON PROHIBITED.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXVII. ANGLE PARKING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXVIII. SCHOOL LOADING ZONES.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXIX. COMMERCIAL FREIGHT LOADING ZONES.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXX. PASSENGER LOADING ZONES.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXI. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES WHERE MARKED.
 
Northwest Drive and Carolina Shores Parkway
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 21-5, passed 5-3-2021)
SCHEDULE XXXII. NO PARKING BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 6:00 P.M.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXIII. NO WEEKEND PARKING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXIV. TWO HOUR PARKING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXV. ONE HOUR PARKING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXVI. THIRTY MINUTE PARKING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXVII. CROSSWALKS.
   Crosswalks at locations other than intersections of streets are designated
and established as follows:
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXVIII. NO PARKING BETWEEN 12:00 A.M. AND 7:00 A.M.
 
All public roads within the Town of Carolina Shores
 
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 21-5, passed 5-3-2021)
SCHEDULE XXXIX. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-7, passed 10-9-2014)
SCHEDULE XXXX. THROUGH TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
 
Through traffic prohibited at The Farm of Brunswick
 
(Ord. 22-9, passed 9-12-2022)
TITLE VIII: OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
80.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
      
81.   ANIMALS
      
82.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 80: ABANDONED, NUISANCE, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
80.01   Administration
   
80.02   Definitions
   
80.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
80.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
80.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
80.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
80.07   Exception to prior notice requirement
   
80.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing requirements
   
80.09   Right of probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
80.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
80.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
80.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
80.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
80.14   Exceptions
   
80.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 80.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Public Safety Department shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. The Public Safety Department shall be responsible
for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be
“abandoned” on the public streets and highways within the town, and on property
owned by the town and shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of “abandoned,” “nuisance” or “junked motor vehicles” located on
private property. The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow
truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to limit the legal authority or powers of public safety officers in enforcing
other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Public Safety
Department, designated to authorize the removal of vehicles under the
provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2 the
term, JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is deteimined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
14 inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 25-7, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 80.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Public Safety Department may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined in § 80.02, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) of this section, upon
investigation, the Public Safety Department may order the removal of a junked
motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following among other relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   (a)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in
the rear yard as defined by the town’s zoning ordinance if the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from
abutting premises by an acceptable covering; and
         (b)   The Public Safety Department has the authority to determine
whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this
provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to
deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the objectives
stated in the preamble of this chapter.
      (2)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor vehicle
(s) must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public
street or abutting property. A garage or building structure means either a
lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to
the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.06 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
80.07 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed. If such names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be give, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Commissioners in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Commissioners, and further proceeding to
remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.07 EXCEPTION TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need from
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. Such finding shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice includes:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Commissioners hereby determined that
immediate removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
code sections.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
of this section, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known
address, unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or
her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) of this section.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.09 RIGHT OF PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district judge to receive such hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-222, as amended.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Public Safety Department. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal of the storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the “Junkyard Control Act,”
G.S. §§ 136-143 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 80.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 81: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
81.01   Running at large
   
81.02   Conditions to keeping horses
   
81.03   Conditions to keeping cattle
   
81.04   Conditions to keeping fowl or rabbits
   
81.05   Male goats prohibited
   
81.06   Swine prohibited
   
81.07   Removal of carcasses
   
81.08—81.14   Reserved
Dogs
   
81.15   Definitions
   
81.16   Enforcement
   
81.17   Licensing
   
81.18   Restraint
   
81.19   Impoundment
   
81.20   Care of dogs
   
81.21   Confinement of female dogs
   
81.22   Rabies
   
81.23   Investigating or interference with officers
   
81.23.1   Preventive measures for dogs
   
81.24   Exemptions
Keeping of Wild Animals
   
81.25   Definitions
   
81.26   Possession unlawful
   
81.27   Enforcement
   81.28   Town Animal Control Ordinance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 81.01 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal, fowl or bird owned
or controlled by him or her or in his or her custody to run or be at large in
the town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.02 CONDITIONS TO KEEPING HORSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or allow to be kept,
harbor or allow to be harbored, maintain or allow to be maintained more than
two horses, mules, jackasses, or jennies or any combination thereof, on any
premises within the jurisdictional limits of the town; provided, however, that
additional horses, mules, jackasses or jennies may be kept on the premises if a
minimum of two acres of pasture per animal is provided for each additional
animal greater than two. Provided further however, that the offspring of any
mare or jenny kept harbored or maintained in the jurisdictional limits of the
town may remain with such mare or jenny until weaned.
   (B)   Private stables with a capacity of housing not more than two horses,
mules, jackasses or jennies may be located within the corporate limits provided
such stable, pen or other enclosure for keeping horses, mules, jackasses or
jennies is located at least 200 feet from a place of human habitation. Any
offspring of a mare or jenny may be housed in the same stable with such mare or
jenny until weaned.
   (C)   Every stable shall be kept clean at all times. If such premises, after
inspection by the County Health Department, are found to be a nuisance or
detrimental to the public health of the owner or occupant of the premises shall
remedy the condition in accordance with the instructions of the County Health
Department within 24 hours. Any such person failing to comply shall be guilty
of violating this section.
   (D)   Stable manure shall be removed at least once every day and deposited
in a covered, flyproof, hard-bottom bin or other suitable receptacle. This
requirement shall not apply to concrete or other impervious types of floors
that can by flushed and drained into the sanitary sewer. No stable manure may
be disposed of in such a manner that it is collected or disposed by the town’s
solid waste collection system.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.03 CONDITIONS TO KEEPING CATTLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or allow to be kept, graze
or allow to be grazed, house or allow to be housed, any cow, bull, steer or
cattle of any kind, nature or description in the limits of the town within 400
feet of any building or house occupied for purpose of residence.
   (B)   Any person keeping or allowing to be kept, grazing or allowing to be
grazed, housing or allowing to be housed, any cow, bull, steer or cattle of any
nature or description within the limits of the town in a place or area more
than 400 feet distant from any building or house occupied for residential
purposes shall keep, graze and house the same in strict compliance with all
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Board of Health of
Brunswick County, the Board of Health of the State, and the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.04 CONDITIONS TO KEEPING FOWL OR RABBITS.
   All persons owning or controlling or having in their custody any fowl or
rabbit confined in pens or enclosures on their premises shall maintain pens and
enclosures in which any fowl or rabbit is kept according to the following
conditions:
   (A)   Shall be a minimum of 30 feet from any property line;
   (B)   Must be used for fowl or rabbits only and must be well ventilated;
   (C)   Shall have a minimum of four square feet of floor area for each fowl
or rabbit;
   (D)   Shall be kept clean, sanitary and free from accumulation of excrement
and objectionable odors and shall be cleaned daily; and all droppings and body
excrement shall be placed in a fly proof container and double-bagged in plastic
bags; and
   (E)   Maximum number of rabbits allowed is four. This provision does not
refer to fowl.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.05 MALE GOATS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or harbor any male
goat within the town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.06 SWINE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to raise, keep or maintain any swine,
except as a domesticated in-door personal pet subject to leash laws, within the
town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 19-1, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 81.07 REMOVAL OF CARCASSES.
   The owner of any animal which shall die shall remove the carcass from the
town, where it shall be buried.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 81.08—81.14 RESERVED.
DOGS
§ 81.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of § §
81.15 through
81.24 the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. A dog of either sex if over the age of four months.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. A dog has been exposed to rabies within the meaning of
this subchapter if it has been bitten by any other animal known or reasonably
suspected to be infected with rabies.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under restraint if it is secured by a leash or lead or
if it is on property of its owner.
   SPAYED FEMALE DOG. A female dog certified by a licensed veterinarian to have
been spayed.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 21-7, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 81.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of §§
81.15 through
81.24 shall be enforced by the Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.17 LICENSING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.18 RESTRAINT.
   A dog owner shall keep his or her dog under restraint at all times.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.19 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs not licensed pursuant to §§
81.15 through
81.24, or found not under restraint or abandoned, may be seized and impounded
by any police or humane officer. Impoundment may be in the Brunswick County dog
pound or any animal shelter designated by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   If the dog wears a license tag or if the owner can by any other
reasonable means be identified and located, the owner shall within 12 hours be
notified by mail that the dog has been impounded.
   (C)   If the dog is impounded in the Brunswick County dog pound it then
becomes the responsibility of the county, and its further disposition shall be
under the applicable county or state laws. All boarding, release or adoption
fees shall be paid to Brunswick County.
   (D)   (1)   If the dog for some good reason is not placed in the Brunswick
County pound, then the following further disposition shall apply.
      (2)   If a dog is not redeemed by the owner within four days after
impoundment, the dog may be disposed of in one of the following ways, but no
other way:
         (a)   Euthanasia, using a method approved by the Humane Society of the
United States; or
         (b)   Release for adoption by a new owner who shows evidence of
ability and intention to provide the dog with an appropriate home and humane
care; provided, that no unspayed female dog shall be released for adoption
unless a licensed veterinarian certifies in writing that he or she has been
paid in full for spaying of the dog and will perform the operation within 30
days or before the dog’s first oestriol period.
   (E)   The intent of §§
81.15 through
81.24 is to require dog owners to comply with the law, not merely to operate an
impoundment program. Police officers shall therefore place primary emphasis
upon apprehending and initiating prosecution of violators of §§
81.15 through
81.24.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.20 CARE OF DOGS.
   The owner of a dog shall provide it with humane shelter from heat, cold,
rain, wind and snow, and shall give it food and water adequate to keep the
animal in good health and comfort. Doghouses and kennels must be soundly
constructed, dry and provided in cold weather with clean bedding. All dogs must
be given opportunity for vigorous daily exercise and must be provided by their
owners with veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering. No owner shall
permit a dog habitually to bark, howl or in other ways be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.21 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.22 RABIES.
   (A)   Every rabid dog or dog exposed to rabies shall be immediately confined
by the owner, who shall promptly notify a police officer or a humane officer.
The owner shall, upon demand by the Brunswick County Health Department
surrender any such dog for quarantine in the county pound, a humane society
animal shelter or a licensed veterinary hospital; provided that, if the owner
elects to place the dog in a hospital, he or she shall be responsible for all
costs. The dog may be quarantined a maximum of two weeks but shall be released
earlier if certified by a licensed veterinarian to be free of rabies. No fee
shall be charged for quarantine by the public pound.
   (B)   No person shall kill a rabid animal exposed to rabies, nor remove such
an animal from the town without permission from the Brunswick County Health
Department, except when it is necessary to kill the animal to prevent it from
escaping or from biting any other animal or person.
   (C)   The body of any animal dead of rabies or having been exposed to rabies
prior to death shall be surrendered by the owner upon demand of the Brunswick
County Health Department.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.23 INVESTIGATING OR INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   Any police officer or designated employee of the town is authorized to enter
any premises where a dog is kept or harbored, to inspect conditions under which
the dog is kept. No person shall hinder, molest or interfere with any police
officer or designated town employee in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 21-7, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 81.23.1 PREVENTIVE MEASURES FOR DOGS.
   (A)   Circumstances requiring special preventive measures. Any police
officer or designated employee of the town shall have the authority to require
the owner or custodian of a dog to comply with specific preventive measures, as
described below in division (B), after taking into consideration the following
three circumstances. This provision shall not limit the authority of the
Department of Public Safety to declare any animal vicious and order its removal
from the town limits as provided in §
81.26 of the town code:
      (1)   Nature of the particular dog. The behavior, size, temperament,
breed, capacity for inflicting serious injury, the number of dogs or other such
similar factors which would be relevant to a determination of whether or not
additional preventive measures need to be imposed for a particular situation;
      (2)   Adequacy of confinement. The adequacy of the enclosure or
confinement, if any; and
      (3)   Immediate surrounding area. The likelihood that the conditions
pertaining to the particular dog and the dog’s confinement are detrimental to
the safety or welfare of citizens or the peace and tranquillity of citizens in
the immediate surrounding area. In considering whether to order a special
preventive measure, a police officer or designated employee of the town is
authorized to consider additional factors as aggravating circumstances that
might warrant the ordering of special preventive measures:
            1.   Children. There is a child under the age of majority who lives
in such close proximity, or children walk by or are otherwise in close
proximity, to the property occupied by the dog;
            2.   Bite. The dog has bitten a human being or domestic animals
without provocation or without a trespass, and the person bitten does not
ordinarily reside on the premises;
            3.   Dog trained for fighting or aggressive attack. The dog is kept
primarily or in part for the purpose of dogfighting or the dog has been framed
for aggressive attacks;
            4.   Attitude of attack incident. A dog, without provocation or a
trespass, has approached a person in an apparent attitude of attack;
            5.   Reputation of a dog. The individual dog has a known
propensity, reputation or tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to
cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or domestic
animals; or
            6.   Dangerous animals. Any animal whose behavior constitutes a
reasonable risk of injuring a human or animal or damaging personal property.
That behavior includes, but is not limited to, an animal’s biting or attacking
or attempting to attack a human or another animal. However, this definition
shall not apply to any animal that has been subject to provocation or if the
victim has been trespassing, as defined herein, upon the animal owner’s
premises.
   (B)   Preventive measures.
      (1)   If the police or a designated employee of the town determines that
the circumstances require special preventive measures, then the Department of
Public Safety shall have the authority to require appropriate, specific
preventive measures which might include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Restraint of dog. When the dog is not confined in a secure
enclosure but on the property of the dog’s owner, it shall be securely under
restraint by a competent person who by means of a leash, chain, or rope has the
dog firmly under control at all times. When the dog is off of the owner’s
property it shall be securely muzzled and under restraint by a competent person
who by means of a leash, chain, or rope has the dog firmly under control at all
times.
            2.   Confinement of dog. Necessary repairs for any fence or
enclosure, measures to ensure that a gate will remain closed, a “fence” or
“secure dog fence” as described below or any other similar devise such as
electronic electric fence that would provide greater assurance for the
confinement of the dog, all of which are subject to being specifically approved
for then adequacy by the Department of Public Safety.
            3.   Secure dog fence. A fence shall be at least a minimum of four
feet high and constitute a secure enough enclosure sufficient to contain the
dog at all times. The minimum size of the enclosure may be at least 120 square
feet. If the dog is over 15 inches at the shoulder or deemed capable of
climbing a standard four-foot fence, then the police or designated employee of
the town may require a six-foot fence or may require up to 160 square feet
enclosure. The location of the enclosure shall be at the approval of the
Department of Public Safety. It shall be in compliance with all other
development regulations inclusive of zoning. A secure dog fence means a fence,
as immediately described above, that may also be enclosed on all six sides
including the top. The bottom may be concrete unless the sides of the fence are
buried one foot deep in a hard packed soil. Any reference to “fence” or “secure
dog fence” shall be defined as stated immediately above. The Department of
Public Safety shall have the authority to require the owner to procure
liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 at the owner’s expense,
or to display a sign on the premises warning of the dog on the premises. The
Department shall have the authority to require the owner to show signed written
statements about maintaining the liability insurance, the designated enclosure
for the dogs and the duty to notify the Department of Public Safety if the dog
escapes, and to require the owner to give the Department of Public Safety the
authority to seize and impound the dog if the owner fails to comply with the
provisions. The police or a designated employee of the town shall have the
authority to waive any or all of these requirements if the Department of Public
Safety determines that a bite is inconsequential or that there is no necessity
for action.
            4.   Notification of escaped dog. The owner of a dog subject to the
preventive measures provided for herein shall immediately notify the town’s
Code Enforcement Officer of an escape of the dog from the owner’s property.
   (C)   Written order. If the police or a designated employee of the town
determines that specific preventive measures must be complied with by the owner
of a dog, the Department of Public Safety shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner of the written order, state the reasons that preventive
measures are required, identify the specific preventive measures that must be
implemented and state the designated time period within which to comply with
the written order. The Department of Public Safety shall have the authority to
exercise discretion for extensions of time if that is reasonable in view of the
good-faith progress of the owner in implementing the preventive measures.
   (D)   Failure to comply with written order. It shall be unlawful for an
owner to fail to comply with a written order within the designated time for
compliance stated in the written order or any extension thereof. In addition to
the remedies set forth in the town code the penalty for failure to comply with
the written order shall be $100. The Department of Public Safety shall have the
authority to issue additional $100 citations for a continuing failure to comply
with a written order.
   (E)   Owner’s challenge to the written order. The owner may submit in
writing a challenge to the Department of Public Safety’s determination that
division (A) above is applicable to the owner’s premises or submit in writing a
challenge to the specific preventive measures required by the division. The
owner’s written challenge must be received at the office of the Town
Administrator, during normal working hours, five days from the date of the
written order, not counting the day of issuance of the written order. The Town
Administrator or a designee shall review the written challenge. The review of
the challenge may be done on the basis of the written material and information
received from the Department of Public Safety regarding the order. The person
reviewing the challenge shall have the authority to make findings of fact and
conclusions in respect to the written order. The decision, the written order
and any findings of act and conclusions shall be final with the only other
appeal made to the general courts of North Carolina.
   (F)   Seizure and disposition of animal. The Department of Public Safety is
authorized to request Brunswick Animal Control to seize any animal in violation
as provided.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 21-7, passed 6-7-2021; Am. Ord. 25-1,
passed 2-10-2025)
§ 81.24 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics and other facilities operated by licensed veterinarians
for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from all provisions of this
chapter except §§
81.22 and
81.23. The licensing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to nonresidents
of the town unless they keep a dog within the town for more than 30 days.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS
§ 81.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living vertebrate, domestic or wild, excluding humans.
   OWN. The status of holding a license for or legal title to an animal, or
feeding, having charge of, harboring, sheltering or taking care of any animal
for three or more consecutive days.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal whose owner or keeper knows, or reasonably should
know, has a propensity to attack a person by biting or in any manner causing
injury or the reasonable likelihood of injury; or, one which has a propensity
to habitually or repeatedly attack livestock or other domestic animals. This
definition shall not apply to any animal which bites, attacks or attempts to
attack any person or animal unlawfully present upon the premises, or which is
provoked to attack.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found in a wild state; those
feral, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animals which generally do not live in
or about the habitation of humans, including, but not limited to, lions,
tigers, leopards, wildcats, bears, deer and the like.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.26 POSSESSION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or in any
way maintain a wild or vicious animal within the corporate limits of the town.
After a determination by the Department of Public Safety that a particular
animal is wild or vicious, the owner or keeper of the animal shall have it
humanely destroyed, or shall otherwise remove it from within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   Any person who owns or keeps an animal which has been declared wild or
vicious shall have the right to appeal this decision to the Town Administrator.
The Town Administrator or his or her representative shall conduct an informal
hearing to determine whether the animal is wild or vicious. If the animal is
judged not to be wild or vicious, it shall be returned to the owner.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Members of the Department of Public Safety are empowered to issue
citations to any person if there is reasonable cause to believe that the person
has violated any provision of this subchapter. A civil penalty of $25 may be
levied against any such person. Each wild or vicious animal, and each day’s
continuing violation, shall constitute a separate and distinct violation,
subject to further penalties.
   (B)   Violation of this subchapter shall also constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $50, or imprisonment of not
more than 30 days, as provided in G.S. 14-4.
   (C)   Alternatively, the town may apply to the appropriate court for an
injunction and order of abatement requiring a violator to correct any unlawful
condition relating to this subchapter existing on his or her property, pursuant
to G.S. 160A-175.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 81-28 TOWN ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE.
   Articles I, II, III, IV, VIII, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII, XIX,
and XX of the Brunswick County Animal Control Ordinance, and all subsequent
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and enacted verbatim as the town’s
Animal Control Ordinance. To the extent there are conflicts between the
provisions of the town’s Animal Control Ordinance and other provisions of
Chapter 81, the provisions of the town's Animal Control Ordinance shall
control.
(Ord. 25-6, passed 6-9-2025)
CHAPTER 82: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
82.01   Failure to pay admission fee
   
82.02   Failure to pay for ambulance service
   
82.03—82.09   Reserved
Offenses Against Property
   
82.10   Posting bills
   
82.11   Damaging streets and property
   
82.12   Damaging playground and park property
   
82.13   Damaging trees and plants
   
82.14   Defacing property
   
82.15   Spitting, defacing walls, throwing refuse on ground
Nuisances
   
82.16   Nuisances enumerated
   
82.17   Investigation, enforcement, and notice to abate
   
82.18   Abatement by town and recovery of costs thereof
   
82.19   Reserved
Offenses Against Morals
   
82.20   Profanity; riotous conduct
   
82.21   Massage of private parts for hire prohibited
   
82.22   Public consumption of malt beverages or unfortified wines prohibited
   
82.23   Obscene words or pictures, writing or drawing on walls; obscene acts
   
82.24   Registered sex offenders banned from public parks, recreation areas and
greenways
   
82.25—82.29   Reserved
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
82.30   Begging, panhandling or soliciting contributions or alms for personal
gain
   
82.31   Soliciting alms under pretext of selling merchandise
   
82.32   Disturbing church services
   
82.33   Disturbing public meetings
   
82.34   Firearms and fireworks
   
82.35   Playing games in streets
   
82.36   Soliciting subscriptions on streets
   
82.37   Restriction on use of coasters, roller skates
   
82.38   Noise regulations
   
82.39   Reserved
   
82.40   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activity
   
82.41   Weapons prohibited on town property
   
82.42   Solicitation
   
82.43—82.49   Reserved
Graffiti
   
82.50   Definition
   
82.51   Graffiti prohibited
   
82.52   Exemption
   
82.53   Removal of graffiti
   
82.54   Restitution
   
82.55   Removal of graffiti by town
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 82.01 FAILURE TO PAY ADMISSION FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to see any public
entertainment for which a fee is charged without paying the admission fee.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.02 FAILURE TO PAY FOR AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      AMBULANCE. Any motor vehicle equipped with facilities therein to
transport injured or infirm persons, on call or demand, accepting patients and
transporting them from one point to another in the town.
      CALL or RUN. The act of progressing with an ambulance to the scene of
need and transporting a patient to his or her destination.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do the following:
      (1)   Obtain or receive ambulance services without intending at the time
of obtaining or receiving the services to pay, if financially able, the
necessary charges; or
      (2)   Knowingly and willfully summon an ambulance or report that an
ambulance is needed when the person knows that the services of an ambulance are
not needed.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 82.03—82.09 RESERVED.
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 82.10 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tack up or post any sign or
advertisement on any utility pole, tree or other structure or fixture located
on the public right-of-way or state, town- or county-owned property. It shall
be unlawful for any person to post any bills, signs or advertisements on any
buildings, fences or other property belonging to another without the consent of
the owner of such property. Such consent shall be secured in writing and shall
be exhibited by the person having the same to any public safety officer on
demand.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.11 DAMAGING STREETS AND PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage any of the public bridges,
pavements, sidewalks or any of the property belonging to the town, or wantonly
pull down or damage in any manner, any fences, gates, signs, awnings, buildings
or other property situated in the town, and owned by individuals.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.12 DAMAGING PLAYGROUND AND PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure any of the
playground equipment or property used in connection with the playgrounds,
public parks or school grounds of the town, or scar, deface or injure any of
the trees or shrubbery of the parks or grounds, or willfully use any of the
equipment on the grounds in such a manner as to injure any person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, discharge or otherwise
place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pool, pond or other
body of water in any park, playground or recreation center maintained by the
town any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish,
waste, garbage, refuse or other trash.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.13 DAMAGING TREES AND PLANTS.
   No person shall willfully, carelessly or negligently damage or destroy any
of the shade trees, shrubbery, plants or other growing things belonging to the
town without consent of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.14 DEFACING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark or deface the walls of any
public building or the waiting room of the railroad company, or the paved
sidewalk of any street.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.15 SPITTING, DEFACING WALLS, THROWING REFUSE ON GROUND.
   It shall be unlawful to spit on the floor or walls of the post office,
courthouse or other public building or deface the walls in any way, or spit on
any of the sidewalks of the town or throw trash or refuse on any sidewalk.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
NUISANCES
§ 82.16 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot, parcel
or public right-of-way within the town is declared to be dangerous, or
prejudicial to the public health or safety, or detrimental to the economic
well-being of the community, and therefore constitutes a public nuisance:
   (A)   (1)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to include,
but not to be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The growth of weeds or grass to a height of 15 inches;
         (b)   The growth of vines (such as kudzu, honeysuckle or similar
vines) beyond the banks of a steep incline, in trees or upon other vegetation
or upon buildings; or
         (c)   The growth of poisonous plants (poison ivy, poison oak or
related vegetation).
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every person occupying, owning or having
control of property abutting on a street or highway that utilizes a portion of
the unused street or highway right-of-way as a yard or any other use, to
maintain said right-of-way in the same character and manner as the abutting
use. In no event shall the growth of weeds or grasses reach a height of 15
inches between the property line and the vacant adjacent paved roadway,
including both swale and sidewalks.
   (B)   Any excessive accumulation of animal or vegetable matter. Animal and/
or vegetable matter shall be disposed of in a manner suitable for collection by
the agent responsible for household waste collection, and shall not be allowed
to collect in yards, porches and so forth, except as follows:
      (1)   Animal and/or vegetable matter may be deposited in a compost pile
or treated as compost, provided same is free of rodents and vermin. If rodents
or vermin are present, the compost pile shall be constructed in such a manner
as to be rodent free or same shall be removed; and
      (2)   Fire wood and/or other useable wood shall be stored in a manner to
discourage the harborage of rodents, vermin and/or wood destroying insects.
   (C)   Any excessive accumulation of rubbish, trash, putrescibles, refuse,
junk, or recyclable items which are publicly visible. Debris and discarded
items shall not be allowed to accumulate within the yard or unenclosed porches.
Appliances, upholstered furniture and other items not designed as patio or lawn
furniture shall not be kept on unenclosed porches visible from a public street
or in yard areas;
   (D)   The accumulation of stagnant water or conditions which promote the
breeding of mosquitoes;
   (E)   Oil, grease, paint, other petroleum products, hazardous materials,
volatile chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, or other solid, liquid,
or gaseous waste which is determined by the Town Administrator or his/her
designee to be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare due to
noncompliance with manufacturer’s storage and use requirements or standard
safety practices;
   (F)   A swimming pool, pond, spa, or other body of water which is abandoned,
unattended, unsanitary, empty, or not securely fenced and which is determined
by the Town Administrator or his or her designee to be detrimental to public
health, safety, and welfare;
   (G)   Any condition on a property meeting the requirements of divisions (1)
and (2) below:
      (1)   Poses a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, is offensive
to the senses, or unreasonably obstructs and interferes with the free use of
property and the comfortable enjoyment of life; or
      (2)   Affects, at the same time, an entire community, neighborhood, or
reasonably significant number of persons even though the extent of said
obstruction or interference may vary throughout; and
   (H)   Any violation of
Chapter 42 of this code.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 23-2, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 82.17 INVESTIGATION, ENFRCEMENT, AND NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   The Town Administrator or his or her duly appointed agent, upon notice
from any person, or upon their own observation, of the existence of any of the
conditions described in §
82.16, shall cause to be made by the appropriate town official such
investigation as may be necessary to determine whether, in fact, such
conditions exist as to constitute a public nuisance as declared in such
section.
   (B)   Upon a determination that such conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Town Administrator or his or her duly appointed agent shall
notify, in writing, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the subject
premises of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and may issue a
civil citation for a penalty as set forth in §
10.08(A) of this code. The Town Administrator or his or her duly appointed
agent shall also order the prompt abatement of the conditions constituting the
public nuisance within 15 days after the mailing of such written notice
excepting violations of §
82.16(E) which shall require abatement of the nuisance within ten days after
the mailing of such written notice. Upon consultation with the offending party,
the public official may, in their discretion, allow a reasonable extension of
time to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   After being served a second nuisance warning given for the
uncontrolled growth of vegetation, the property owner shall keep the growth on
that lot under control for the duration of the growing season without any
further warning from the town. If the owner shall fail to keep the growth under
control for the remainder of the growing season, the town may mow same or seek
other remedies without further warning. Wooded lots, or lots where the terrain
does not allow use of necessary equipment, shall be exempted from abatement
except on lots where equipment may maneuver around trees, bushes and other
natural obstructions.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 23-2, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 82.18 ABATEMENT BY TOWN AND RECOVERY OF COSTS THEREOF.
   (A)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance pursuant
to this subchapter, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition
constituting the nuisance within 15 days from mailing of such order excepting
violation of §
82.16(E) which shall have ten days from the mailing of such written notice, the
Town Administrator or his or her duly appointed agent shall cause such
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
or a private contractor obtained by the town go upon such premises and remove
or otherwise abate such nuisance under the supervision of an officer or
employee designated by the Town Administrator. Any person who has been ordered
to abate a public nuisance may, within the time allowed by this subchapter,
request the town, in writing, to remove such condition, the cost of which shall
be paid by the person making such request. The town may, at its option, accept
such responsibility and enter written agreement with the property owner to
abate such nuisance and agree to payment arrangements.
   (B)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Finance Director to mail a statement
of such charges to the owner or other person in possession of such premises,
with instruction that such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof. The actual cost incurred, when the owner does not abate the
nuisance, shall be established by the Board of Commissioners. Such costs may
include an administrative expense.
   (C)   If charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are not
paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges, such charges
shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the public nuisance existed
and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
   (D)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be in addition to any
other remedies, civil or otherwise, which now or hereafter exist under state
law for the enforcement of violations and abatement of public nuisances
including those remedies established under G.S. §§ 160A-175 - 160A-193.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 23-2, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 82.19 RESERVED.
OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
§ 82.20 PROFANITY; RIOTOUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use profane, indecent or boisterous
language, or to behave in a riotous and disorderly manner in any street, alley
or other public place.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.21 MASSAGE OF PRIVATE PARTS FOR HIRE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading or tapping by hand or mechanical device.
      PRIVATE PARTS. The penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or to offer to massage
the private parts of another for hire. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to licensed medical practitioners, osteopaths, chiropractors or persons
operating at their directions, in connection with the practice of medicine,
chiropractic or osteopathy.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.22 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF MALT BEVERAGES OR UNFORTIFIED WINES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt beverages or unfortified
wine as defined by G.S. Chapter 18B on property owned or occupied by the town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.23 OBSCENE WORDS OR PICTURES, WRITING OR DRAWING ON WALLS; OBSCENE ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any obscene act in any public
place, or to write obscene language or to make obscene markings or drawings on
any public or private buildings, or on the streets or sidewalks.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.24 REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS BANNED FROM PUBLIC PARKS, RECREATION AREAS AND
GREENWAYS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or otherwise requires a different meaning.
      PARKS, RECREATION AREAS AND GREENWAYS. Any town owned, leased or
maintained land which is designated by the town as a park, recreation area and/
or greenway.
      REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to, the sex
offender registry established in G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27A.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is a registered sex offender
to enter upon any park, recreation area or greenway operated and maintained by
the town. Each entry upon such areas, regardless of the time period between
such entries, shall constitute a separate offense under this section.
   (C)   Any sex offender found to be in violation of division (B) above shall
be personally advised that they are banned from entry upon parks, recreation
areas and greenways of the town and subject to criminal trespass for repeated
violations.
   (D)   Any sex offender who is found in violation of this section shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 per
offense or 30 days in jail as set forth in G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 82.25—82.29 RESERVED.
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 82.30 BEGGING, PANHANDLING OR SOLICITING CONTRIBUTIONS OR ALMS FOR PERSONAL
GAIN.
   The intent of this section is to regulate begging, panhandling or soliciting
contributions or alms for personal gain from occupants of vehicles and
pedestrians within the town. Bona fide members of charitable, religious, civic
or fraternal organizations that are considered a charitable non-profit
organization as defined by the United States Internal Revenue Service and
receive no compensation of any kind for their services are exempt from this
section except in regards to the conduct of the person soliciting as described
in division (I) of this section:
   (A)   Definitions: for the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCOSTING ANOTHER PERSON shall be defined as approaching or speaking to
someone in such a manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent
bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act or damage to property in his or
her immediate possession;
      To BEG, PANHANDLE OR SOLICIT CONTRIBUTIONS OR ALMS shall be defined to
include, without limitation, the spoken, written or printed word or such other
acts as are conducted in furtherance of the purpose of obtaining contributions
or alms.
      DIRECT WRITTEN APPEAL shall be defined as begging, panhandling or
solicitation by handing to a person or attempting to hand to a person a written
solicitation for immediate contributions.
      FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER PERSON shall be defined as:
      (1)   Continuing to request or solicit contributions in close proximity
to the person addressed after that person has responded negatively;
      (2)   Blocking the passage of the person addressed; or
      (3)   Otherwise engaging in conduct which reasonably could be understood
as intended to force a person to accede to demands.
      INTIMIDATE ANOTHER PERSON shall be defined as acting in such a way as
would cause a reasonable person to fear bodily harm and therefore to do
something he or she would not otherwise have done.
      NIGHTTIME shall be defined as the time after sunset and before sunrise.
      PUBLIC PLACE shall be defined to include streets, highways and roadways
(including the shoulders and medians), sidewalks, alleys and other public
property, as well as town-owned and town-controlled property and private
property open to the public unless written permission to solicit has been
obtained from the property owner or other person in authority.
      VOCAL APPEAL shall be defined as begging, panhandling or solicitation of
contributions by spoken word or other verbal request. This shall not include
the act of performing music with a sign or other indication that a contribution
is being sought, without any vocal request other than in response to an
inquiry.
   (B)   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit contributions for personal
gain in a public place without the written permission of the property owner or
person of authority.
   (C)   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit contributions in a public
place in a manner so as to intimidate another person or by accosting another
person, or by forcing oneself upon the company of another person.
   (D)   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit contributions from another
person within 50 feet of an entrance or exit of any bank or financial
institution or within 50 feet of any automated teller machine.
   (E)   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit contributions in any public
vehicle owned or operated by the town or at any station for such vehicle or
within six feet of a bus stop sign, bus stop shelter or bus stop bench.
   (F)   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit contributions while sitting
or standing on a roadway or the shoulder or median of a roadway.
   (G)   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit contributions in a public
place by vocal appeal or direct written appeal during the nighttime without the
written permission of the property owner or person of authority.
   (H)   This section shall not apply to events conducted on town-owned
property that have previously been approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (I)   Any members of charitable, religious, civic or fraternal organizations
including persons acting on their behalf shall act in accordance with divisions
(C), (D), (E) and (F) of this section. Violations of these sections may result
in the penalty as described in division (J) of this section.
   (J)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall
subject the violator to a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.31 SOLICITING ALMS UNDER PRETEXT OF SELLING MERCHANDISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit alms in public places by
offering for sale any article or merchandise.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.32 DISTURBING CHURCH SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any number of persons to congregate and remain on
the outside of any church or other place of public worship to the annoyance,
disturbance or inconvenience of the people worshipping on the inside.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.33 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any public meeting, place of
public entertainment or amusement or to disturb such a place by loud talking,
whistling, using indecent language or in any other unseeming manner, or to
willfully obstruct the entrance way to the meeting or willfully impede the
ingress or egress of those seeking to attend or depart from such a place in the
town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.34 FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire off or discharge any
firearms, without first obtaining a permit from the Public Safety Department,
except that a public safety officer in the discharge of his or her duty shall
be exempt from this section. Nothing in this section shall prevent a person
from discharging a firearm for his or her protection as allowed by state law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot with a bow and arrow, or
to shoot missiles of any description from slings, spring guns or instruments of
any kind.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 23-4, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 82.35 PLAYING GAMES IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball in any manner or engage in
any game of any land calculated to damage glass windows or other property on
the public streets or alleys within the town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.36 SOLICITING SUBSCRIPTIONS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit newspaper, magazine or map
subscriptions on the streets of the town.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.37 RESTRICTION ON USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES.
   No person on roller skates or riding in any coaster, toy vehicle or similar
device, shall go upon any roadway, other than a street set aside as a play
street, unless it be while crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.38 NOISE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The provisions of this chapter are enacted under the
authority of G.S. § 160A-184 to prevent noise disturbances and unreasonably
loud noises which, at certain levels or durations and during certain times of
day or night, can be detrimental to health and adversely impact a person's way
of life and right to the peaceful and quiet use and enjoyment of property. The
provisions herein prohibit noise disturbances and unreasonably loud noise from
all sound sources and thereby promote public health, safety, and welfare.
Nothing set forth in this chapter is intended to abridge an individual's right
to freedom of speech or any other right under the Constitutions of the United
States and the State of North Carolina.
   (B)   Definitions. The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the
meaning set forth below unless otherwise specifically provided or otherwise
clearly required by the context:
      “A” WEIGHTING SCALE. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-frequency-weighted network and slow meter
response setting. Sound levels are represented herein by the designation dB(A).
      ABSENTEE OWNER. A property owner who is not occupying the property.
      ADJOINING PROPERTY. Property which shares a contiguous boundary with
another property.
      AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound or noise, including the human voice, that is
increased in volume or intensity.
      ANSI. The American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment used for commercial purposes
with common business areas.
      CONSTRUCTION. The on-site erection, fabrication, installation, repair,
alteration, demolition, or removal of any right-of-way surface, structure,
facility, or addition thereto, and including all activities related to the
construction such as, without limitation, land clearing, earth moving,
blasting, and landscaping.
      DECIBEL (dB). Unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure (20 micronewtons per square meter).
      EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical injury, psychological trauma, and/or property damage which
demands immediate action to maintain or restore public safety and prevent or
alleviate the exigent circumstances.
      IMPULSIVE SOUND. A sound of short duration, usually less than one second,
with an abrupt onset and rapid cessation. Examples of sources of impulsive
sound include explosions, drop forge impacts and the discharge of firearms.
      MOTORIZED VEHICLES. Generally, any motor vehicle as defined in G.S. § 20-
4.01 and G.S. § 105-164.3 including but not limited to:
         (a)   Passenger vehicles.
         (b)   Common carriers of passengers.
         (c)   Motorcycles and mopeds.
         (d)   Truck tractors.
         (e)   Farm tractors.
      NECESSARY ACTIVITY. An activity the town determines cannot be avoided for
the purpose of construction, public safety, constitutionality, or other
activity that the town deems acceptable to allow for a limited time.
      NECESSARY BUSINESS EQUIPMENT. Equipment physically affixed, joined, or
connected to the outside of a building, and without which a business located
inside the building would not be able to operate. Examples include but are not
limited to heating and air conditioning units, electrical generators, water
pumps, ventilation systems, and air/water chillers.
      NEIGHBORING PROPERTY. Property which does not share a contiguous boundary
with another property, but which is in close enough proximity to be affected by
sound produced on the other property.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound or combination of sounds which, because of
its volume or quality or time of day, tends to annoy, disturb, frighten, or
otherwise cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect upon
reasonable persons of normal sensitivity, or unreasonably prevents such persons
from being able to enjoy their activities of daily living.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution,
group, agency, political subdivision or agency thereof, or any legal successor
in interest, representative, or agent thereof.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound or component of sound for which any of the
content of that sound is unambiguous, verifiable, and discernible above ambient
levels by a person using his or her unaided hearing faculties, including but
not limited to musical rhythms, understandable speech, or rhythmic bass.
      RESIDENTIAL AREAS. Any area within the town that is zoned: R-15; R-12; R-
8; R-6; MFH I; MFH II; and PRD.
      RESPONSIBLE PERSON. An owner, tenant, occupant, employee, agent, or any
other person who is or who is apparently responsible for the premises,
structure, dwelling, or commercial establishment within which a noise
disturbance occurred or is occurring.
      SOUND. Any disturbance of the air or other medium that is detectable by
the unaided human ear or which produces vibrations detectable by persons of
normal sensitivity.
      SOUND LEVEL. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a
sound level meter and frequency weighting network as specified in ANSI
specifications for sound level meters.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. Device used to measure sound pressure levels with a
standardized frequency weighting and indicated exponential time weighting for
measurements of sound level, or without time weighting for measurement of time-
average sound pressure level or sound exposure level.
      SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. In decibels, 20 times the logarithm to the base ten
of the ratio of the magnitude of a particular sound pressure to the standard
reference pressure. The standard reference pressure is 0.0002 microbars.
      SOUND SOURCE. Any person, animal, device, equipment, vehicle, operation,
process, activity, or phenomenon emitting or causing sound.
   (C)   General prohibition. Except as allowed herein, no person shall engage
in any activity on any property, public or private, within the town's corporate
and extraterritorial jurisdictional limits which activity results in a noise
disturbance.
   (D)   Specific prohibitions. The following acts are specifically declared to
be unreasonably loud, annoying, frightening, or disturbing sounds constituting
noise disturbances in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on a vehicle for an
unnecessary purpose, or for an unreasonable period of time, or for the purpose
of harassing another person.
      (2)   The use of any siren upon any vehicle other than police, fire,
ambulance, or other emergency vehicle.
      (3)   Operation of any motor vehicle without a proper muffler system as
provided for in G.S. § 20-128(a).
      (4)   Construction activity in residential areas between the hours of 8:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time on New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day, or
Christmas Day unless otherwise permitted under division (J) below.
      (5)   The intentional projection of sound from any drum, music,
loudspeaker, or other instrument or device onto adjoining or neighboring
properties for the purpose of attracting attention to a business, location,
performance, show, event, sale, activity, or display.
      (6)   Allowing an animal or bird to frequently or for extended periods of
time make noises which would tend to disturb or annoy a reasonable person of
normal sensitivity on adjoining or neighboring property.
      (7)   The collection of garbage, recyclables, or yard waste between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in residential areas.
      (8)   The operation of lawn mowers and other domestic power tools outside
in residential areas between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (9)   The operation of a radio, television, record player, stereo or
other sound reproduction system, musical instrument or sound-producing or
sound-amplifying device within a structure in such a manner or at such a volume
that the amplified sound is audible 30 feet or more from the premise's property
line.
      (10)   The operation of a radio, cassette player, compact disc, streaming
device, or similar equipment for reproducing sound located on or in any motor
vehicle sited on a public or private street, a public or private vehicular
area, or on public or private property if the sound or vibration therefrom is
audible or can be felt 30 feet or more from the sound source.
      (11)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is muffled and reduced so as not to constitute a
noise disturbance.
      (12)   The operation of any noise-creating internal combustion engine
unless the engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to muffle or
reduce noise such that it does not constitute a noise disturbance.
      (13)   The operation of any noise-producing appliance or other mechanical
device which results in a noise disturbance.
   (E)   Exceptions. To the extent that such uses are for a legitimate purpose,
the following are excepted from the application of this chapter:
      (1)   Construction activity performed by or for a governmental agency
provided the utilized equipment is operated in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications and is equipped with noise-reducing equipment that is in good
working order.
      (2)   Sound or noise of safety signals, warning devices, and emergency
pressure relief valves.
      (3)   Sound or noise emanating from street fairs, festivals, or other
public events produced, sponsored, or approved by the town.
      (4)   Sound or noise emanating from film and video production activities
for which filming permits have been issued by the town, provided that all
equipment is operated in accordance with manufacturer's specifications and is
equipped with noise-reducing equipment that is in good working order.
      (5)   Sound or noise from lawful fireworks.
      (6)   Lawnmowers, agricultural equipment, and domestic power tools
operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. provided that all
equipment is operated in accordance with manufacturer's specifications and is
equipped with noise-reducing equipment that is in good working order.
      (7)   Necessary business equipment, provided that such equipment is
operated in accordance with manufacturer's specifications and is equipped with
appropriate noise-reducing equipment in good working order.
      (8)   Music during parades or military ceremonies.
      (9)   The collection of garbage, recyclables, or yard waste between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (10)   Emergency vehicles when used in the performance of official
duties.
      (11)   Sound allowed under a town-issued permit or a town-made contract,
to the extent such sound is provided for and/or authorized by such permit or
contract.
   (F)   Noise violation based on sound level meters.
      (1)   Enforcement of this chapter does not require the use of a sound
level meter to determine compliance. However, when a sound level meter is used
to determine sound levels hereunder, the standards, instrumentation, personnel,
measurement procedures, and reporting procedures shall be as set forth in this
section and all terminology not defined in this chapter shall be construed
within the context of the ANSI.
      (2)   Sound level measurement shall be made with a sound level meter
using the A- weighting scale, set on slow response.
      (3)   Sound level meters shall be serviced, calibrated, and operated as
recommended by the manufacturer and in conformity with a protocol prescribed by
the town's Public Safety Department. Personnel using sound level meters shall
be trained in sound level measurement and the operation of sound level
measuring equipment.
      (4)   Sound level measurements shall be made, depending on the
circumstances, from within the boundary line of an adjoining, neighboring, or
complaining property. Whether the sound level violates the limits prescribed in
division (G) below shall be determined by whether the readings taken exceed the
levels allowed for the zoning area of the property that is the source of the
sound.
      (5)   Except as specified in division (8) below, the sound level
measurement shall be averaged over a period of at least one minute for purposes
of determining the sound level. Sound levels may not exceed the prescribed
level by more than three decibels at any time during the measurement period.
      (6)   During a sound level measurement, the microphone shall not be
positioned to create or result in an unnatural enhancement of the measured
sound. A windscreen shall be used when appropriate.
      (7)   Traffic noise and noise from other sources not connected with the
sound being measured shall not be considered in taking sound level
measurements.
      (8)   For noise that is impulsive or not continuous, the sound level
measurement shall be taken over a period of at least one minute. Any such sound
or noise that exceeds the prescribed level more than two times in a minute
shall be deemed to exceed the prescribed sound levels.
      (9)   If a Public Safety Officer does not have possession of a
department-owned and ANSI- approved sound level meter at the time of responding
to a noise complaint, sound level measurements for the purpose of determining
violations of this section may not be taken using any other device, including
but not limited to applications on cellular devices or any hand-held personal
sound level meters obtained from any other source. The Public Safety Officer
shall instead proceed under other sections of this chapter to determine whether
a noise disturbance is occurring.
   (G)   Sound level limits by zoning area.
 
Maximum Sound Level Readings
Residential Areas
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. 60 dB(A) 8:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 50 dB(A)
Non-Residential Areas
7:00 a.m. to Midnight  75 dB(A) Midnight to 7:00 a.m.  70 dB(A)
 
   (H)   Enforcement in general and noise violations not based on sound level
meters.
      (1)   A Public Safety Officer responding to a noise complaint may, in the
officer's discretion, issue a civil citation in accordance with the provisions
set forth in §
10.08(A) herein if the officer determines that an illegal noise disturbance
occurred or is occurring.
      (2)   A Public Safety Officer does not have to use a sound level meter or
actually witness the sound or noise personally in order to take enforcement
action under this chapter. Citations may be issued based upon statements and
evidence obtained from complaining witnesses when the officer determines that
such evidence is material, credible, unbiased, and sufficient.
      (3)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
communicate a noise complaint to any town staff or official for the purpose of
harassing the subject of the complaint while knowing or having reason to know
that in fact no noise disturbance occurred.
      (4)   Factors to consider in determining whether a noise disturbance
exists include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The volume of the noise;
         (b)   The intensity of the noise;
         (c)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
         (d)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
         (e)   The volume and intensity of any background noise;
         (f)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
         (g)   The nature and zoning of the area from which the noise emanates;
         (h)   The density of the inhabitation of the area from which the noise
emanates;
         (i)   The time of day or night during which the noise occurs;
         (j)   The duration of the noise;
         (k)   Statements of any complaining witness(es), including any
photographs and/or audio/video recordings produced by the complaining witness
(es); and
         (l)   Whether the noise is recurrent, impulsive, intermittent, or
constant.
   (I)   Owner/occupant responsibility.
      (1)   Penalties for violations of this section may be assessed against
persons responsible for either the premises or the sound source.
      (2)   All persons responsible for either the premises or the sound source
who are actively or constructively present at the time of the violation may be
listed on the same citation and if so, shall be jointly and severally
responsible for any such violation.
      (3)   Provided they receive written notice, in accordance with the
provisions set forth in §
10.08(A) herein, of a previous violation of this chapter, an absentee property
owner shall be responsible for the actions of tenants, guests, or other
licensees constituting subsequent violations of this chapter provided the
subsequent violation(s) occurred within 12 months after the date on which the
previous violation occurred.
   (J)   Noise permits.
      (1)   A noise permit shall be obtained in advance for any activity where
the sound level of which will exceed or is reasonably expected to exceed the
sound level and/or time limits set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   An application for a permit under this section shall be submitted
to the town's Public Safety Department at least five business days in advance
of the proposed activity. The application shall designate, and provide
effective contact information for, the contact person for the activity who
shall be responsible for ensuring that the activity complies with the terms and
conditions of the noise permit.
      (3)   A Public Safety Officer shall have the discretionary authority to
revise the allowable times and acceptable sound levels set forth in the permit
provided that the officer shall not extend the allowable time limit by more
than one hour, or increase the allowable sound level for any activity by more
than ten decibels over the sound level limits set forth in the permit.
      (4)   The following criteria shall be considered in determining whether
to grant a permit:
         (a)   The use and activities permitted by the zoning regulations in
the subject areas;
         (b)   The intensity of sound levels regularly produced by activities
and devices in such areas;
         (c)   The time at which the proposed sound will occur;
         (d)   The level and duration of the proposed sound;
         (e)   The proximity of the proposed sound to commercial buildings and
residential dwellings and the density of those areas;
         (f)   The history, if any, of noise complaints against the applicant;
         (g)   Whether the proposed sounds will be recurrent, intermittent,
impulsive, or constant;
         (h)   Failure to complete the application properly; and
         (i)   The basis for the proposed sound.
      (5)   If an application for a noise permit is denied, then the reasons
for denial shall be set forth in writing and promptly delivered to the
applicant. If an applicant believes the denial is improper, the applicant
shall, within five business days after the date on which said written denial
was received by the applicant, submit a copy of the denied permit application,
together with a short statement setting forth why the permit should be granted,
to the Town Administrator who shall have the discretionary authority to
consider the appeal and grant the permit together with reasonable and related
conditions, if any, for the issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 23-3, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 82.39 RESERVED.
§ 82.40 LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any street,
sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility, or the doorways and entranceways to any building which
fronts on any of those places, or a motor vehicle in or on any of those places,
or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER,
POSSESSOR OR SELLER is a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting
officer, been convicted in any court within this state in the past ten years of
any violation involving the use, possession or sale of any of the substances
referred to in the North Carolina Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90,
Article 5, or has been convicted of any violation of any substantially similar
laws of any political subdivision of this state or of any other state or of
federal law within the past ten years.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place for the purpose of violating any subdivision of the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Article 5. Circumstances that may be
considered in establishing a person’s purpose include, without limitation, the
following:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping, or attempting to stop passers-
by, or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   Such person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (6)   Such person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a
police officer;
      (7)   Such person is at a location frequented by persons who use, possess
or sell drugs; or
      (8)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller, or is known to be or have been involved in drug-related
activities.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.41 WEAPONS PROHIBITED ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, all persons are prohibited
from possessing weapons as defined in G.S. 14-269 in town-owned buildings,
their appurtenant premises, parks and all town-owned property except as defined
in division (B) below.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to the following persons:
      (1)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the aimed forces of the United
States when in discharge of their official duties as such and acting under
orders requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
      (2)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of their
official duties;
      (3)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the National Guard when
called into actual service;
      (4)   Animal control officers while in the discharge of their official
duties; and
      (5)   Sworn law enforcement officers;
   (C)   A conspicuous notice shall be posted at each entrance to any property
set forth above, stating:
“Possession of weapons or carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited.”
   (D)   Any person in violation of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined $500 or imprisoned for six
months, or both.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.42 SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Solicitation of funds, subscription papers or display or sale of
merchandise shall be prohibited each work day during the standard time of work
then in effect, in offices and work areas in municipal buildings where
employees of the town perform work.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in
accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 82.43—82.49 RESERVED.
GRAFFITI
§ 82.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. Writings, drawings, inscriptions, figures or marks of paint, ink:,
chalk, dye or similar substances on private or public buildings, structures or
places which are not authorized or permitted by the property owner or
possessor. For the purpose of this subchapter, GRAFFITI includes drawing,
writings, markings or inscriptions regardless of the content or the nature of
materials used in the commission of the act.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.51 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write, paint, inscribe, scratch,
scrawl, spray, place or draw graffiti of any type on any public or private
building, structure or any other real or personal property. Any person
convicted of a violation of this subchapter shall be fined not less than $250
for a first offense and $500 for second and subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.52 EXEMPTION.
   Section 82.51 shall not be construed to prohibit temporary, easily removable
chalk or other water-soluble markings on public or private sidewalks, streets
or other paved surfaces which are used in connection with traditional
children’s activities, such as drawings or bases for stickball, kickball,
handball, hopscotch or similar activities, nor shall it be construed to
prohibit temporary, easily removable chalk or other water soluble markings used
in connection with any lawful business or public purpose or activity.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.53 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning property, acting as manager
or agent for the owner of property, or in possession or control of property to
fail to remove or effectively obscure any graffiti upon such property. Any such
person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not more than
$100. In determining the fine to be imposed, the court may consider the
efforts, if any, taken by the violator to remove or effectively obscure the
graffiti during the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   The mandatory fine provided in this section shall not apply to a
property owner, agent, manager or possessor of property if such property owner,
agent, manager or possessor has been victimized two or more times by graffiti
within any calendar year and, during such time, has removed or effectively
obscured such graffiti from the property in a timely manner.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.54 RESTITUTION.
   In addition to any other punishment imposed, the court shall order the
person convicted of a violation of this subchapter to make restitution to the
victim for the damage or loss suffered by the victim as a result of the
offense. The court may determine the amount, terms and conditions of the
restitution.
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 82.55 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY TOWN.
   (A)   Notice. Whenever the town becomes aware of the existence of graffiti
on any property, the town is authorized to remove the graffiti as set forth in
this section after giving, or causing to be given, written notice to remove or
effectively obscure such graffiti to the property owner, such property owner’s
agent or manager, or any other person in possession or control of the property.
If the town intends to place a lien on the property, as provided in division
(B) below, it must also notify all other persons whose names appear on the tax
rolls of the county as having an interest in the property. Notice shall be
given by personal service or certified mail, except that notice may be given by
first class mail to those persons, other than the property owner, whose names
appear on the tax rolls of the county as having an interest in the property.
All notices shall state the procedure for appeals under this section.
   (B)   Costs and liens. If the person owning the property, acting as manager
or agent for the owner of the property, or in possession or control of the
property fails to remove or effectively obscure the graffiti within 14 days
from receipt of the notice described in division (A) above, the town may cause
the graffiti to be removed or effectively obscured and charge the property
owner, or the property owner’s manager or agent, or the person in possession or
control of the property, for the expenses incurred by the town in removing the
graffiti. The town may sue in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover all
such expenses, which shall include, but not be limited to, all administrative
personnel costs, attorney fees and costs related to enforcing this section;
and/or the town may record a lien in the public records of the county, which
lien shall be for all such expenses, and the amount of the lien shall bear
interest from the date of recording.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Appeals may be taken to the Board of Commissioners
or its designee by the person owning the property, acting as manager or agent
for the property, or in possession or control of the property to prevent the
removal of any graffiti, within 14 days of having received notice from the town
that the graffiti must be removed. Appeals shall be in writing and shall state
the reasons for the appeal. If the party filing the appeal requests a hearing,
such hearing shall be held at the next scheduled business meeting of the Board
of Commissioners. If, on appeal, the Board of Commissioners or its designee
determines that the graffiti must be removed, the Board or its designee may set
a new deadline date for compliance or authorize the town to proceed to remove
or obscure the graffiti. The town shall not remove or obscure any graffiti
during the appeal. Further, the Board of Commissioners at its discretion may
decide not to place a lien on the property by reason of death, disability and/
or mental capacity.
   (D)   Emergency removal. If the town determines that any graffiti is a
danger to the health, safety or welfare of the public and is unable to provide
notice by personal service after at least two attempts to do so, then 48 hours
after either:
      (1)   The mailing of the notice described in division (A) above by
certified and first class mail to the person owning the property, acting as
agent or manager for the owner of such property, or in possession or control of
such property; or
      (2)   The posting of the notice in a conspicuous place on the property,
the town may remove or cause the graffiti to be removed at its expense.
   (E)   Repair/restoration. In no case shall the town paint or repair any area
obscured by graffiti more extensively than where the graffiti itself is
located. The town shall not be required to restore the obscured area to its
original condition (i.e., color, texture and the like).
(Ord. 14-8, passed 10-9-2014)
TITLE IX: PLANNING AND REGULATION OF DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
90.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
91.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
92.   UNIFORM ADDRESSING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Scope of chapter and codes
   
90.02   Building Code adopted
   
90.03—90.06   Reserved
   
90.07   Amendments to Codes
   
90.08   Compliance with Codes
   
90.09   Copies of Codes to be filed with Clerk
   
90.10—90.14   Reserved
Inspection Division
   
90.15   Organization of Division
   
90.16   General duties of Division and Inspectors; jurisdiction thereof
   
90.17   Conflicts of interest
   
90.18   Reports and records
   
90.19   Inspection procedure
   
90.20   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
90.21   Powers of Inspectors
   
90.22—90.29   Reserved
Enforcement
   
90.30   Permits required; building permit
   
90.31   Application for permit
   
90.32   Plans and specifications
   
90.33   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
90.34   Issuance of permit
   
90.35   Revocation of permits
   
90.36   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
90.37   Changes in work
   
90.38   Permit fees, inspection fees
   
90.39   Town held harmless
   
90.40—90.49   Reserved
Minimum Housing Standards
   
90.50   Findings, purpose, and authority
   
90.51   Definitions
   
90.52   Violations
   
90.53   Public officer and standards
   
90.54   Additional powers of the public officer
   
90.55   Service of complaints and orders
   
90.56   Remedies
   
90.57—90.49Reserved
Repair, Closing or Demolition of Abandoned Structures
   [Reserved]
Movers of Buildings and Structures
   [Reserved]
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 SCOPE OF CHAPTER AND CODES.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
to, attached to or detached from the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.02 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The currently approved edition of the North Carolina State Building Code and
all technical codes including Residential, Electrical, Plumbing, Mechanical,
Fuel Gas, Fire Prevention, Energy Conservation and Administration, Existing
Buildings, Rehabilitation and all appendices, as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 90.03—90.06 RESERVED.
§ 90.07 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are filed with the Town Clerk or Building Inspector as provided in §
90.09. New codes created from time to time related to §§
90.02 to 90.06 such as energy and insulation codes are hereby incorporated via
reference as adopted and amended by the North Carolina Building Code Council.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.08 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed, reconstructed,
erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or moved shall
conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions of either
the North Carolina State Building Codes.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.09 COPIES OF CODES TO BE FILED WITH CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk or Building Inspector. The copies shall be the official copies of the
codes and the amendments.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 90.10—90.14 RESERVED.
INSPECTION DIVISION
§ 90.15 ORGANIZATION OF DIVISION.
   The Inspection Division of the town shall consist of a Building Inspector,
and may also include a Plumbing Inspector, a Mechanical Inspector, an
Electrical Inspector and any other inspectors or deputy or assistant inspectors
as may be authorized by the Board of Commissioners. The Inspection Division
shall be a component of the Department of Public Works and fall under the
jurisdiction thereof for the purpose of organization, administration,
supervision and coordination in compliance with §
21.10 of the code of ordinances.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.16 GENERAL DUTIES OF DIVISION AND INSPECTORS; JURISDICTION THEREOF.
   (A)   General duties. It shall be the duty of the Inspection Division to
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes
adopted herein, and to make all inspections necessary to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and the North Carolina Building Codes including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Receive applications and supporting data for permits;
      (2)   Issue or deny permits;
      (3)   Make all necessary inspections to ensure code compliance;
      (4)   Identify provisions found to be inconsistent with the inspection;
      (5)   Issue or deny certificates of compliance and certificates of
occupancy;
      (6)   Issue stop work orders or orders to correct violations;
      (7)   Maintain adequate records of permits issue or denied, inspections
made, corrections ordered and certifications issued; and
      (8) Take other actions that may be required to adequately enforce the
code pursuant to statute (including, but not limited to, G.S. § 160A-412).
   (B)   Qualifications; code enforcement official’s qualifications. No state
or local government employee shall enforce any provision of the North Carolina
State Building Codes who does not possess an appropriate valid certificate
issued by the North Carolina Code Official’s Qualification Board as specified
in G.S. §§ 143-151.13 and 160A-411.1.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The Inspection Division and the inspectors thereof shall
have, pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-411 and 160A-413, jurisdiction over all areas
within the town limits, all extraterritorial areas that the town has
jurisdiction pursuant to state laws, and over any areas in which the
municipality have contracted with another unit of government to perform code
enforcement.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. §§ 160A-411, 160A-411.1, 160A-412 and 160A-413 were repealed by Session
Laws 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by Session Laws 2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and
Session Laws 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d), effective June 19, 2020.
§ 90.17 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Division shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the building. No officer or employee of the Inspection Division shall
engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the
interests of the town as subject by G.S. § 160A-415.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-415 was repealed by Session Laws 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by
Session Laws 2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and Session Laws 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d),
effective June 19, 2020.
§ 90.18 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspection Division shall keep complete, permanent and accurate records
in convenient form of all applications received, permits issued, inspections
and re-inspections made, and all other work and activities of the Inspection
Division. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners and
to other agencies, as required.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.19 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   Generally. The Inspection Division shall inspect all buildings and
structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as
often as necessary in order to determine compliance with the appropriate codes.
All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the Inspection Division
and the appropriate inspector when work is ready for inspection and to provide
access to and means for inspection of work for any inspections that are
required by this code. Refer to the North Carolina Administrative Code for a
list of all required inspections as amended by the North Carolina General
Assembly and the North Carolina Building Code Council. Work shall not be done
beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first
obtaining the approval of the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
   (B)   Calls for inspection. Request for inspections may be made to the
office of the Inspection Division or to the appropriate inspector. The
Inspection Division shall make inspections as soon as practicable after a
request is made therefor; provided the work is ready for inspection at the time
the request is made.
   (C)   Re-inspections. Re-inspections may be made at the convenience of the
inspector. No work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed
condition ready for inspection. All work which has been concealed before the
inspection and approval shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and
placed in condition for proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work
shall be furnished by the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted
on the building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent. Failure to
call for inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of
construction shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No new building or part thereof shall be
occupied, and no addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be
occupied, and no existing building after being altered or moved shall be
occupied, and no change of occupancy shall be made in any existing building or
part thereof, until the Inspection Division has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a
portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final
completion and occupancy of the entire building. The Inspection Division shall
issue a certificate of occupancy when, after examination and inspection, it is
found that the building in all respects conforms to the provisions of this
chapter, the regulatory codes and the zoning code for the occupancy intended.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.20 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Division shall be deemed to legalize the
violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any regulatory
code herein adopted.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.21 POWERS OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Authority. Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter, and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (B)   Right of entry. With an appropriate warrant or permission from the
owner or occupant, inspectors shall have the right to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the applicable regulatory codes, including but not limited to G.S.
§§ 160A-420 and 160A-421.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
town ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in such a manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector
may order the work to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing to
the owner of the property or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the
work, and shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under which the
work may be resumed. Such orders shall be subject to the provisions of G.S. §§
160A-420 and 160A-421.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. §§ 160A-420 and 160A-421 were repealed by Session Laws 2019-111, s.
2.3, as amended by Session Laws 2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and Session Laws 2020-25,
s. 51(a), (b), (d), effective June 19, 2020.
§§ 90.22—90.29 RESERVED.
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.30 PERMITS REQUIRED; BUILDING PERMIT.
   No person shall commence or proceed with: the construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, movement to another site, removal or demolition of any
building or other structure, or any part thereof; the installation, extension
or general repair of any plumbing system; the installation, extension,
alteration or general repair of any heating or cooling equipment system; or the
installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring,
devices, appliances or equipment without first securing from the Inspection
Division each permit required by the North Carolina State Building Codes and
other state or local law or local ordinance or regulation applicable to the
work, such that the standards of state law are adhered to.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.31 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter, and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Division.
   (B)   The application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by his or her authorized agent or representative, and, in
addition to other information as may be required by the appropriate inspector
to enable him or her to determine whether the permit applied for should be
issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence and business of authorized representative or agent,
if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for such contractors, if a certificate is required for the work involved
in the permit for which application is made.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.32 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Where plans and specifications are required, an approved copy of the same
shall be kept at the work site until all construction has been completed and
approved by the appropriate inspector.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.33 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure, the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $90,000, unless the plans bear the state seal of a registered design
professional.
   (C)   Where any provisions of the General Statutes of North Carolina or of
any ordinance requires that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of
any kind, no permit for the work shall be issued unless it is to be performed
by the licensed specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required by this chapter,
no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications have
been provided.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.34 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue the permit, upon payment of the proper fee or fees as hereafter
provided.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.35 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.36 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire six months after the date
of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been commenced. If
after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the
permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit
which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit has been
secured, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-418.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-418 was repealed by Session Laws 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by
Session Laws 2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and Session Laws 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d),
effective June 19, 2020.
§ 90.37 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 90.38 PERMIT FEES, INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees. Fees for permits shall be based on the total estimated
cost of the proposed work, including all subcontracts if any, but in no case
shall the total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar
completed work in the town as determined by the appropriate inspector or
inspectors. Permit fees shall be as established by the Board of Commissioners
and filed in the office of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Inspection fees. Building permit fees for the construction, alteration
or addition of buildings shall be based upon the total cost of the general
construction, alteration or addition. The term TOTAL COST OF CONSTRUCTION shall
mean the greater amount of a bona fide bid price, duly authenticated of the
general construction, alteration or addition or a sum equal to the product of
the number of square feet of the general construction, alteration or addition
multiplied by the multiple in the schedule of fees adopted.
   (C)   Demolition fees and sureties. Demolition permit fees for the
demolition of an existing building shall be $200 and shall require the posting
of a letter of credit or surety bond in the amount of 10% of the tax value
listed by the Brunswick County Tax Assessor. Such surety shall be payable to
the town for the removal and disposal of the demolished or partial demolished
structure and callable in the event of non-performance by the demolition
contractor. Sureties may not be partially drawn down, but released only when
the structure including all appurtenances thereto are completely removed from
the lot and the lot is restored to a natural planted state.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 3-9-2017)
§ 90.39 TOWN HELD HARMLESS.
   The applicant seeking a permit required by this and other chapters under the
jurisdiction of the Inspections Section shall hold the town harmless from
claims of bodily injury and/or property damage of all persons arising out of
the use or occupancy of the premises as specified on the permit by the
applicant, his or her agents, employees or invitees.
(Ord. 14-9, passed 10-9-2014)
§§ 90.40—90.74 RESERVED.
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 90.50 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12, it is hereby found and
declared that there exist in the town dwellings that are unfit for human
habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire,
accidents, and dangerous circumstances, lack of ventilation, light, and
sanitary facilities, and other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe,
unsanitary, dangerous, and detrimental to the health, safety, morals, and
welfare of the town’s residents.
   (B)   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the town’s residents, it
is the purpose of this subchapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for
the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation.
   (C)   It is also hereby found and declared that there exist in the town
dwellings that, although not meeting the classification as being unfit for
human habitation, fail to fully comply with the minimum housing standards
established herein, and therefore present conditions inimical to the public
health, safety, and welfare that, if not remedied, can result in the
deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings and render them unfit for human
habitation.
(Ord. 23-8, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 90.51 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this subchapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context.
   OWNER. The holder of a recorded interest in real property and every
mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, and other entities that have interests
of  record in a dwelling, and any that are in possession thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any officer in charge of any department or branch of the
town relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities
concerning dwellings within the town’s planning and development regulation
jurisdiction.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The officer authorized to exercise the powers prescribed
under this subchapter and under G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12.
(Ord. 23-8, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 90.52 VIOLATIONS.
   Upon finding that dwelling conditions of the character described in §
90.50 exist within the town, this subchapter provides that:
   (A)   A public officer be designated or appointed to exercise the powers
prescribed herein.
   (B)   Whenever a petition is filed with the public officer by a public
authority, or by at least five residents of the town, charging that any
dwelling is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the public
officer (on his or her own initiative) that any dwelling is unfit for human
habitation; the public officer, if his or her preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for such charges, shall:
      (1)   Issue and cause to be served upon the owner of the subject
property, and upon the parties in interest, a complaint stating the charges of
how the dwelling is in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   Provide notice that a hearing will be held before the public
officer (or his or her designated agent) at a place within the town, not less
than ten days before, nor more than 30 days after serving the complaint;
      (3)   Give the owners and parties in interest the right to file an answer
to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at
the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
      (4)   Provide that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in the hearing he or she conducts.
   (C)   If, after notice and hearing, the public officer determines that the
subject dwelling is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall set forth in
writing the findings of fact supporting that determination, and shall issue and
cause to be served upon the owner thereof one of the two following orders,
whichever is appropriate:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a reasonable cost not exceeding 50% of the then current value of the
dwelling, an order requiring the owner, within the time specified, to repair,
alter, or improve the dwelling to render it fit for human habitation or to
vacate and close the dwelling as a human habitation. The order may require that
the property be vacated and closed only if continued occupancy during the time
allowed for repair will present a significant threat of bodily harm, taking
into account the nature of the repairs, alterations, or improvements and the
current state of the property. The order shall state that the failure to make
timely repairs, as directed therein, shall make the dwelling subject to the
issuance of an unfit order under division (D) hereof; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a reasonable cost not exceeding 50% of the then current value of the
dwelling, an order requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order,
to remove or demolish the dwelling.
   (D)   If an owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, improve,
or vacate and close the dwelling, the public officer may cause the dwelling to
be repaired, altered, improved or vacated and closed, and may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any dwelling so closed, a placard with the
following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or
occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
   Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor. The
duties of the public officer, as set forth in this division, shall not be
exercised until the Town Board of Commissioners shall have, by ordinance,
ordered the public officer to proceed with effectuating the purpose of this
subchapter with respect to the subject property, which property shall be
described in the ordinance. This ordinance shall be recorded in the Brunswick
County Register of Deeds, and shall be indexed in the name of the property
owner in the grantor index.
   (E)   If an owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
dwelling, the public officer may cause the dwelling to be removed or
demolished. The duties of the public officer set forth in this division shall
not be exercised until the Town Board of Commissioners shall have, by
ordinance, ordered the public officer to proceed with effectuating the purpose
of this subchapter with respect to the subject property, which property shall
be described in the ordinance. This ordinance shall be recorded in the
Brunswick County Register of Deeds, and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. No such ordinance shall be adopted to
require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been given a
reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the housing code.
   (F)   If the dwelling has been vacated and closed for a period of one year,
pursuant to an ordinance adopted under division (D) hereof, or after the public
officer issues an order under this subchapter regarding a dwelling to be
repaired or vacated and closed, the Town Board of Commissioners may find that
the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation, and that the
continuation of the dwelling in its vacated and closed state is hazardous to
public health, safety, and welfare in that the dwellingwill continue to
deteriorate, result in fire and safety hazards, pose a threat to children and
vagrants, possibly attract persons intent on criminal activities, and
contribute to the deterioration of property values in the area, then the Town
Board of Commissioners may, after the one year-period has expired, enact and
serve on the owner an ordinance setting forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner to
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
   The ordinance shall be recorded in the Brunswick County Register of Deeds,
and shall be indexed in the name of the owner in the grantor index. If the
owner fails to comply with the ordinance, then the public officer shall
effectuate the purpose of this subchapter.
   (G)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements to the
dwelling or the costs of vacating and closing and/or removing or demolishing
the dwelling that are incurred by the town shall be a lien against the real
property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be filed, have the
same priority, and be collected as a lien for special assessments as set forth
in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the dwelling is removed or demolished by
the public officer, he or she shall sell the materials of the dwelling,
together with any personal property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or
attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the
cost of the removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited
in the superior court by the public officer, secured in a manner directed by
the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by a final order or decree of the court.
   (H)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the public officer may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
the occupant as set forth in G.S. § 160D-1203(8).
(Ord. 23-8, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 90.53   PUBLIC OFFICER AND STANDARDS.
   The public officer for the town shall be the Building Inspector, who may
determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he or she finds that
conditions exist in the dwelling that render it dangerous or injurious to the
health, safety, and welfare of the dwelling's occupant(s), the occupants of
neighboring dwellings, or other residents of the town. Defective conditions may
include, without limitation, the following: defects increasing the hazards of
fire, accident, or other injurious circumstances; lack of adequate ventilation,
light or sanitary facilities; dilapidation; disrepair; faulty and improper
wiring; structural defects; and uncleanliness.
(Ord. 23-8, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 90.54   ADDITIONAL POWERS OF THE PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized to exercise any powers necessary
to:
   (A)   Investigate dwelling conditions in the town to determine that
dwellings are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   Administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   Enter upon premises, pursuant to an administrative warrant if
necessary, for the purpose of making examinations in a manner that will least
inconvenience the person in possession;
   (D)   Appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents, and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances; and
   (E)   Delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this subchapter
to other officers and other agents.
(Ord. 23-8, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 90.55 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the public officer shall be served
personally or by certified mail. When by certified mail, a copy of the
complaint or order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed
sufficient if the certified mail is unclaimed or refused, and the regular mail
is not returned by the U.S. Postal Service within ten days after it was mailed.
If regular mail is used, then a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the subject premises.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be reasonably ascertained by the public officer, or in the
event the owners are known but have refused to accept service by certified mail
and the public officer makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of
the complaint or order may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the jurisdiction at least once no later than the time in which
personal service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the subject premises.
(Ord. 23-8, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 90.56 REMEDIES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §§
91.54 and
91.55, an appeal may be taken from the decision or order of the public officer,
which shall be heard
§§ 90.57—90.74 RESERVED.
REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF ABANDONED STRUCTURES
   [Reserved]
MOVERS OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 91: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
Purpose and Applicability
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Authority
   
91.03   Purpose
   
91.04   Applicability
   
91.05   Conflicts with other regulations
   
91.06   North Carolina State Building Code
   
91.07   Severability
   
91.08   Interpretation
   
91.09   Identification of Official Zoning Map
   
91.10   Zoning Map interpretation
   
91.11   Relationship to comprehensive plan
   
91.12   Development approvals run with the land
   
91.13   Refund of illegal fees
   
91.14   Enforcement
   
91.15   Effective date
   
91.16—91.19   Reserved
General Regulations
   
91.20   Applicability of general regulations
   
91.21   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited
   
91.22   Street access
   
91.23   Relationship of building to lot
   
91.24   Required yards not to be used by building
   
91.25   Lot requirements/dimensions
   
91.26   Street intersection sight visibility triangle
   
91.27   No use or sale of land or buildings except in conformity with unified
development ordinance provisions
   
91.28   Height limitation exceptions
   
91.29   Lot size without all public utilities
   
91.30   Property dedicated for private use
   
91.31   Temporary buildings
   
91.32   Business uses of manufactured homes and trailers
   
91.33   Permit to construct driveway required
   
91.34   Fees
   
91.35   Split jurisdiction
   
91.36   Pending jurisdiction
   
91.37—91.39   Reserved
Administrative/Legislative Authority
   
91.40   Administrative staff
   
91.41   Planning Board
   
91.42   Board of Adjustment
   
91.43   Conflicts of interest
   
91.44—91.49   Reserved
Legislative/Quasi-Judicial Procedures
   
91.50   Process for adoption of development regulations
   
91.51   Moratoria
   
91.52   Vested rights and permit choice
   
91.53   Development agreements
   
91.54   Appeals, variances and interpretations
   
91.55   Quasi-judicial procedures
   
91.56   Special use permits
   
91.57   Rehearings
   
91.58—91.59   Reserved
Development Review Process
   
91.60   Applicability
   
91.61   Administrative development approvals and determinations
   
91.62   Pre-application meeting and sketch plan
   
91.63   Administrative development approval - minor site plan or subdivision
   
91.64   Planning Board review and development approval (major site plan or
subdivision)
   
91.65   Engineering drawing review requirements
   
91.66   Site plan procedures
   
91.67   Subdivision procedures
   
91.68—91.69   Reserved
Zoning Districts
   
91.70   Establishment of zoning districts
   
91.71   Interpretation
   
91.72   Primary zoning districts
   
91.73   Conditional zoning district
   
91.74   Table of permitted/conditional uses
   
91.75   Zoning district development standards
   
91.76—91.79   Reserved
Supplemental Regulations
   
91.80   Introduction
   
91.81   Accessory uses
   
91.82   Portable storage container
   
91.83   Adult entertainment business
   
91.84   Battery charging/exchange station
   
91.85   Reserved
   
91.86   Kennel
   
91.87   Mixed use
   
91.88   Service station
   
91.89   Shopping center
   
91.90   Tattoo and body piercing parlor
   
91.91   Telecommunication facilities
   
91.92   Cemeteries
   
91.93   Child care center
   
91.94   Crematorium
   
91.95   Place of assembly
   
91.96   Bona fide farm
   
91.97   Golf and driving range, par 3
   
91.98   Golf course
   
91.99   Auction conducted entirely within a building
   
91.100   Auction, estate
   
91.101   Granny pods
   
91.102   Homestay lodging in residential districts
   
91.103   Tiny houses
   
91.104   Whole house lodging/homestay lodging in the O/I and NE districts
   
91.105—91.109   Reserved
Nonconforming Situations
   
91.110   Intent
   
91.111   Nonconforming uses
   
91.112   Nonconforming structures
   
91.113   Nonconforming lots of record
   
91.114   Repairs and maintenance
   
91.115   Planned residential development and planned unit development
   
91.116   Nonconforming signs
   
91.117—91.119   Reserved
Performance Standards
Part I: Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements
   
91.120   Off-street parking requirements
   
91.121   General provisions
   
91.122   Requirements for parking lots
   
91.123   Manufactured home and trailer parking and storing
   
91.124   Vehicle storage
   
91.125   Vehicle stacking areas
   
91.126   Parking space dimensions
   
91.127   Handicapped requirements
   
91.128   Loading areas
   
91.129   Parking ratios
   
91.130—91.139   Reserved
Part II: Landscape, Buffering and Screening
   
91.140   Purpose
   
91.141   Applicability
   
91.142   Tree resource management
   
91.143   Landscape requirements
   
91.144   Bufferyards
   
91.145   Additional requirements for buffers and for yards in which buffers are
required
   
91.146   Installation
   
91.147   Maintenance
   
91.148   Landscape plan
   
91.149   Tree protection during construction
   
91.150   Recommended plant list
   
91.151—91.159   Reserved
Part III: Building Facade Design
   
91.160   Intent
   
91.161   Applicability
   
91.162   Exempt
   
91.163   Standards
   
91.164   Alternative compliance
   
91.165—91.169   Reserved
Part IV: Outdoor Lighting
   
91.170   Purpose and intent
   
91.171   Applicability
   
91.172   Exempt
   
91.173   Lighting plan
   
91.174   Site lighting design requirements
   
91.175   Illumination levels
   
91.176   Excessive illumination
   
91.177   Nonconforming lighting
   
91.178—91.179   Reserved
Part V: Emergency Management Standards
   
91.180   General provisions
   
91.181   State Codes
   
91.182—91.189   Reserved
Part VI: Sign Regulations
   
91.190   Purpose
   
91.191   Zoning certificate procedures
   
91.192   General requirements
   
91.193   Prohibited signs
   
91.194   Sign area and location
   
91.195   Illumination
   
91.196   General maintenance requirements
   
91.197   Reconstruction of damaged signs or sign structures
   
91.198   Commercial, business and industrial districts: additional requirements
   
91.199   Subdivision identification signs
   
91.200   Unlawful cutting of trees
   
91.201   Excluded signs
   
91.202—91.209   Reserved
Part VII: Subdivisions
   
91.210   Standards for review
   
91.211   Sketch plans
   
91.212   Preliminary plats for minor and major subdivisions
   
91.213   Final plats for all subdivisions
   
91.214   Information to be provided on preliminary and final plats
   
91.215   Recombination of land
   
91.216   Resubdivision procedures
   
91.217   Compliance with provisions required
   
91.218   Suitability of land
   
91.219   Name duplication
   
91.220   Subdivision design
   
91.221   Stormwater drainage facilities
   
91.222   Erosion and sedimentation control
   
91.223   Streets
   
91.224   Utilities
   
91.225   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
91.226   Variances
   
91.227   Cemetery subdivision lot size exemption
   
91.228   Notice of new subdivision fees and fee increases; public comment
period
   
91.229   Final plat certifications and other documentation
   
91.230—91.239   Reserved
Environmental Regulations
Part I: Flood Damage Prevention
   
91.240   Statutory authorization
   
91.241   Findings of fact
   
91.242   Statement of purpose
   
91.243   Objectives
   
91.244   Lands to which this section applies
   
91.245   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
91.246   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
91.247   Compliance
   
91.248   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
91.249   Interpretation
   
91.250   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
91.251   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
91.252   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
91.253   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
91.254   Corrective procedure
   
91.255   Variance procedures
   
91.256   General standards for flood hazard reduction
   
91.257   Specific standards for flood hazard reduction
   
91.258   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
91.259   Standards of riverine floodplains with BFE data, but without
established floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
91.260   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
91.261   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
   
91.262   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH)
   
91.263   Legal status provisions
   
91.264—91.269   Reserved
Part II: Stormwater Control
   
91.270   General provisions
   
91.271—91.279   Reserved
Part III: Sedimentation and Erosion Control
   
91.280   General provisions
   
91.281—91.289   Reserved
Part IV: Riparian Buffers
   
91.290   General provisions
   
91.291—91.299   Reserved
 
   
Appendix A: Definitions
      
A.1   Purpose
      
A.2   Interpretation
      
A.3   Definitions
   
Appendix B: Installation detail
PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Carolina Shores Unified
Development Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.1; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Zoning provisions enacted herein are under the authority of G.S.
Chapter 160D, Article 7, Zoning, which extends to towns/cities the authority to
enact regulations which promote the health, safety, morals or the general
welfare of the community. It authorizes cities to regulate and restrict the
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land. This section further authorizes the establishment of
overlay districts in which additional regulations may be imposed upon
properties that lie within the boundary of the district. The statutes also
require that all such regulations shall be uniform for each class or type of
building throughout each district, but that the regulations in one district may
differ from those in other districts.
   (B)   Subdivision provisions enacted herein are under the authority of G.S.
Chapter 160D, Article 8, Subdivision Regulations, which provide for the
coordination of streets within proposed subdivisions with existing or planned
street and with other public facilities, the dedication or reservation of
recreation areas serving residents of the immediate neighborhood within the
subdivision, or alternatively, for the provision of funds to be used to acquire
recreation areas serving residents of more than one neighborhood in the
immediate area, and for the distribution of population and traffic in a manner
that will avoid congestion and overcrowding.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.2; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.03 PURPOSE.
   This Unified Development Ordinance and Zoning Map are made in accordance
with a Comprehensive Plan and is designed to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare. To that end, these regulations may address, among other
things, the following public purposes: to provide adequate light and air; to
prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population;
to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and
dangers; to facilitate the efficient and adequate provision of transportation,
water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; to control
development of flood prone areas and regulate stormwater runoff/discharge; to
regulate signs; to establish proceedings for the subdivision of land; and to
promote the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the community. The
regulations have been made with reasonable consideration, among other things,
as to the character of the jurisdiction and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the jurisdiction. The
regulations may not include, as a basis for denying a zoning or rezoning
request from a school, the level of service of a road facility or facilities
abutting the school or proximately located to the school.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. 
      (1)   The regulations set forth in this Unified Development Ordinance
shall apply to all property within the town limits, extraterritorial
jurisdiction and within the various zoning districts as designated on the
Official Zoning Map, as established in §§
91.70 through
91.75, Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be
erected, moved, altered or extended, and no land, building or structure or part
thereof shall be occupied or used unless in conformity with the regulations
specified for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   These regulations shall not apply to any land or structure for
which, prior to the effective date hereof, there is a properly approved site-
specific plan as required by the requirements previously adopted or previously
approved vested rights in accordance with G.S. § 160D-108. Any preliminary or
final subdivision plat approvals required for such approved or exempted site-
specific plans shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the
previous Zoning Ordinance or Subdivision Ordinance.
      (2)   In accordance with G.S. § 160D-913, this UDO is applicable to the
erection, construction, and use of buildings by the State of North Carolina and
its political subdivisions. Notwithstanding the provisions of any general or
local law or ordinance, except as provided in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9,
Part 4, no land owned by the State of North Carolina may be included within an
overlay district, or a conditional zoning district without approval of the
Council of State or its designee.
      (3)   The following are not included within the definition of a
subdivision (as provided in Appendix A), and are not subject to the regulations
of this Unified Development Ordinance:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the municipality
as shown on its subdivision regulations;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors;
and
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of the municipality, as shown in its subdivision
regulations; and
         (e)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 29.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.4; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.05 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Unified
Development Ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, prosperity and general
welfare. It is not intended by this Unified Development Ordinance to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties.
   (B)   When the requirements of this UDO, made under the authority of G.S.
Chapter 160D, require a greater width or size of yards or courts, or require a
lower height of a building or fewer number of stories, or require a greater
percentage of a lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other higher standards
than are required in any other statute or local ordinance or regulation, the
regulations made under authority of G.S. Chapter 160D shall govern. When the
provisions of any other statute or local ordinance or regulation requires a
greater width or size of yards or courts, or require a lower height of a
building or a fewer number of stories, or require a greater percentage of a lot
to be left unoccupied, or impose other higher standards than are required by
the regulations made under authority of G.S. Chapter 160D, the provisions of
that statute or local ordinance or regulation shall govern.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.5; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.06 NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING CODE.
   The Town Building Code with appendices and the North Carolina State Building
Code are incorporated herein by reference, and serve as the basis for Building
Inspector authority to regulate building construction. This Unified Development
Ordinance is not intended to conflict with or supersede the North Carolina
State Building Code regulations. In addition, the town’s minimum housing code
is also incorporated herein by reference. All quasi-judicial procedures
prescribed in §§
91.50 through
91.57 apply to these codes/ordinances.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.6; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section or specific provision or standard of this Unified Development
Ordinance or any regulating district boundary arising from it is found by a
court to be invalid for any reason, the decision of the court shall not affect
the validity of any other section, provision, standard or district boundary of
these regulations except the provision in question. The other portions of these
regulations not affected by the decision of the court shall remain in full
force and effect.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.7; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.08 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Responsibility. In the event that any question arises concerning the
application of regulations, performance standards, definitions, development
criteria or any other provision of the UDO, the UDO Administrator shall be
responsible for interpretation and shall look to the Unified Development
Ordinance for guidance. Responsibility for interpretation by the UDO
Administrator shall be limited to standards, regulations and requirements of
the UDO, but shall not be construed to include interpretation of any technical
codes adopted by reference in the UDO, and shall not be construed as overriding
the responsibilities given to any commission, board, building inspector or town
officials named in other sections or articles of the UDO.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   If a use is not specifically listed in any of the districts listed
in this Unified Development Ordinance, then the UDO Administrator shall have
the authority to interpret in which district the use, if any, should be
permitted.
      (2)   If the UDO Administrator rejects a proposal for a use that is not
clearly disallowed in a particular district, then the UDO Administrator shall:
         (a)   Ensure that the citizen is provided with a copy of the
interpretation in writing;
         (b)   Inform the citizen of the right to appeal the decision to the
Board of Adjustment; and
         (c)   Assist with the development of a proposed zoning text change for
consideration by the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners allowing policy-
makers to determine whether the proposed use should be an allowable use in the
district or not. Financial responsibility for a proposed zoning text change
shall be on the applicant.
   (C)   Delegation of authority. Unless otherwise specified in the UDO, the
identification of certain officials, including the UDO Administrator, Town
Administrator, Town Attorney or any other town official to perform a task or
carry out a specific responsibility, shall also include the designee of such
official.
   (D)   Computation of time.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an
act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the
last day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day
shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a person has the
right or is required to do some act within a prescribed period after the
service of a notice and the notice or paper is served by mail (certified mail/
return receipt requested), three days shall be added to the prescribed period.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.8; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.09 IDENTIFICATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor
attested by the Town Clerk and bearing the seal of the town under the following
words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map of the Unified
Development Ordinance, Carolina Shores, North Carolina,” together with the date
of the adoption of this Unified Development Ordinance and most recent revision
date.
   (B)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this Unified Development
Ordinance, changes are made in district boundaries or other items portrayed on
the Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map
promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Board of Commissioners,
with an entry on the Official Zoning Map denoting the date of amendment,
description of amendment and signed by the Town Clerk. No amendment to this
Unified Development Ordinance which involves matter portrayed on the Official
Zoning Map shall become effective until after such change and entry has been
made on said Map.
   (C)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
Unified Development Ordinance and state law. Any unauthorized change of
whatever kind by any person shall be considered a violation of this Unified
Development Ordinance and punishable as provided under §
91.14.
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map,
which shall be located in the office of the Town Clerk, shall be the final
authority as to the zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other
structures in the town.
   (E)   In the event the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or difficult to interpret, the Board of Commissioners may by resolution adopt a
new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior zoning map. The new
Official Zoning Map may correct drafting errors or other errors or omissions in
the prior Official Zoning Map, but no correction shall have the effect of
amending the original Official Zoning Map, or any subsequent amendment thereof.
The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor
attested by the Town Clerk, and bearing the seal of the town under the
following words: “This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes
and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being
replaced), as part of the Unified Development Ordinance, Carolina Shores, North
Carolina.”
   (F)   Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining,
shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment.
   (G)   Duly adopted zoning district maps shall be maintained for public
inspection in the office of the Town Clerk. Current and prior zoning maps may
be maintained in paper or a digital format approved by the town.
   (H)   This chapter may reference or incorporate by reference flood insurance
rate maps, watershed boundary maps, or other maps officially adopted or
promulgated by state and federal agencies. Where zoning district boundaries are
based on these maps, said boundaries are automatically amended to remain
consistent with changes in the officially promulgated state or federal maps. A
copy of the currently effective version of any incorporated maps shall be
maintained for public inspection as provided in division (G).
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.9; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.10 ZONING MAP INTERPRETATION.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any district
shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Use of property lines. Where district boundaries are indicated as
approximately following street lines, alley lines and lot lines, such lines
shall be construed to be such boundaries. Where streets, highways, railroads,
watercourses and similar areas with width are indicated as the district
boundary, the actual district boundary line shall be the centerline of such
area.
   (B)   Use of the scale. In unsubdivided property or where a zone boundary
divides a lot, the location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated by
dimensions shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the Map.
   (C)   Vacated or abandoned streets. Where any street or alley is hereafter
officially vacated or abandoned, the zoning regulations applicable to each
parcel of abutting property shall apply to the centerline of such abandoned
street or alley.
   (D)   Board of Adjustment. In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board
of Adjustment shall interpret the intent of the Map as to location of such
boundaries.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.10; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.11 RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Applicability. As a condition of adopting and applying zoning
regulations, the town shall adopt and reasonably maintain a comprehensive plan
that sets forth goals, policies, and programs intended to guide the present and
future physical, social, and economic development of the jurisdiction. The
town’s comprehensive plan is intended to guide coordinated, efficient, and
orderly development throughout the town’s corporate limits based on an analysis
of present and future needs. Planning analysis may address inventories of
existing conditions and assess future trends regarding demographics and
economic, environmental, and cultural factors. The planning process shall
include opportunities for citizen engagement in plan preparation and adoption.
In addition to a comprehensive plan, the town may prepare and adopt such other
plans as deemed appropriate. This may include, but is not limited to, land use
plans, small area plans, neighborhood plans, hazard mitigation plans,
transportation plans, housing plans, and recreation and open space plans. If
adopted pursuant to the process set forth in this section, such plans shall be
considered in review of proposed zoning amendments.
   (B)   Comprehensive plan contents. A comprehensive plan may, among other
topics, address any of the following as determined by the town:
      (1)   Issues and opportunities facing the town, including consideration
of trends, values expressed by citizens, community vision, and guiding
principles for growth and development.
      (2)   The pattern of desired growth and development and civic design,
including the location, distribution, and characteristics of future land uses,
urban form, utilities, and transportation networks.
      (3)   Employment opportunities, economic development, and community
development.
      (4)   Acceptable levels of public services and infrastructure to support
development, including water, waste disposal, utilities, emergency services,
transportation, education, recreation, community facilities, and other public
services, including plans and policies for provision of and financing for
public infrastructure.
      (5)   Housing with a range of types and affordability to accommodate
persons and households of all types and income levels.
      (6)   Recreation and open spaces.
      (7)   Mitigation of natural hazards such as flooding, winds, wildfires,
and unstable lands.
      (8)   Protection of the environment and natural resources, including
agricultural resources, mineral resources, and water and air quality.
      (9)   Protection of significant architectural, scenic, cultural,
historical, or archaeological resources.
      (10)   Analysis and evaluation of implementation measures, including
regulations, public investments, and educational programs.
   (C)   (1)   Adoption and effect of plans. Plans shall be adopted by the
Board of Commissioners with the advice and consultation of the Planning Board.
Adoption and amendment of the comprehensive plan is a legislative decision and
shall follow the process mandated for zoning text amendments set by §
91.50. Plans adopted under G.S. Chapter 160D may be undertaken and adopted as
part of or in conjunction with plans required under other statutes, including,
but not limited to, the plans required by G.S. § 113A-110. Plans adopted under
G.S. Chapter 160D do not expand, diminish, or alter the scope of authority for
development regulations adopted under G.S. Chapter 160D. Plans adopted under
G.S. Chapter 160D shall be considered by the Planning Board and Board of
Commissioners when considering proposed amendments to zoning regulations as
required by §
91.50(D) and (E).
      (2)   If a plan is deemed amended by §
91.50(E) by virtue of adoption of a zoning amendment that is inconsistent with
the plan, that amendment shall be noted in the plan. However, if the plan is
one that requires review and approval subject to G.S. 113A-110, the plan
amendment shall not be effective until that review and approval is completed.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.12 DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS RUN WITH THE LAND.
   Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens,
and obligations created by development approval made pursuant to this chapter
attach to and run with the land.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.13 REFUND OF ILLEGAL FEES.
   If the town is found to have illegally imposed a tax, fee, or monetary
contribution for development or a development approval not specifically
authorized by law, the town shall return the tax, fee, or monetary contribution
plus interest of 6% per annum to the person who made the payment or as directed
by a court if the person making the payment is no longer in existence.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notices of violation. When the UDO Administrator determines work or
activity has been undertaken in violation of the Unified Development Ordinance
or other local development regulations or any state law delegated to the town
for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state or in violation of the terms of a
development approval, a written notice of violation may be issued. The notice
of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval and
to the landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not the holder
of the development approval, by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or
first-class mail and may be provided by similar means to the occupant of the
property or the person undertaking the work or activity. The notice of
violation shall be posted on the property. The UDO Administrator shall certify
to the town that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall be deemed
conclusive in the absence of fraud. Except as provided by G.S. § 160D-1123 or
G.S. § 160D-1206 or otherwise provided by law, a notice of violation may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to §
91.54(A).
   (B)   Stop work orders. Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation
pursuant to this chapter or other applicable local development regulation or
any state law delegated to the town for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or local law, or in a
manner that endangers life or property, staff may order the specific part of
the work or activity that is in violation or presents such a hazard to be
immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing, directed to the person
doing the work or activity, and shall state the specific work or activity to be
stopped, the reasons therefor, and the conditions under which the work or
activity may be resumed. A copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder
of the development approval and to the owner of the property involved (if that
person is not the holder of the development approval) by personal delivery,
electronic delivery, or first-class mail. The person or persons delivering the
stop work order shall certify to the town that the order was delivered, and
that certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud. Except as
provided by G.S. § 160D-1112 and § 160D-1208, a stop work order may be appealed
pursuant to §
91.54(A). No further work or activity shall take place in violation of a stop
work order pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop work order shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (C)   Remedies.
      (1)   Any development regulation adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D
may be enforced by any remedy provided in G.S. § 160A-175. If a building or
structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted,
or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is used or developed in
violation of this UDO or of any development regulation or other regulation made
under authority of G.S. Chapter 160D, the town, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance, use, or development; to restrain, correct, or abate the violation;
to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about the premises.
      (2)   When a development regulation adopted pursuant to authority
conferred by G.S. Chapter 160D is to be applied or enforced in any area outside
the planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the town, the town and
the property owner shall certify that the application or enforcement of the
town that the town’s development approval would be withheld without the
application of the town. The certification may be evidenced by a signed
statement of the parties on any development approval.
      (3)   In case any building, structure, site, area, or object designated
as a historic landmark or located within a historic district designated by the
town is about to be demolished whether as the result of deliberate neglect or
otherwise, materially altered, remodeled, removed, or destroyed, except in
compliance with the UDO, the town, the historic preservation commission, or
other party aggrieved by such action may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent such unlawful demolition, destruction, material
alteration, remodeling, or removal, to restrain, correct, or abate such
violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such
building, structure, site, area, or object. Such remedies shall be in addition
to any others authorized by this UDO for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations shall become effective on September 6, 2012.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.13; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.16—91.19 RESERVED.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 91.20 APPLICABILITY OF GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The following general regulations of this subchapter shall apply in all
situations unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.1; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.21 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this Unified Development
Ordinance shall be reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set
forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this Unified
Development Ordinance shall meet at least these minimum requirements.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.2; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.22 STREET ACCESS.
   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut a street or have
access to a public right-of- way. A building(s) may be erected adjoining a
parking area or dedicated open space which has access to a street used in
common with other lots.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.23 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved or structurally altered, shall be
located on a lot and in no case shall there be more than one principal building
and its customary accessory buildings on the lot except in the case of a
designed complex of professional, residential or commercial buildings in an
appropriate zoning district, i.e., school campus, apartments, condominiums,
shopping center and industrial park. Detached garages and carports must meet
the same setback requirements as the principal building, just as if they were
attached.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.4; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.24 REQUIRED YARDS NOT TO BE USED BY BUILDING.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this Unified Development
Ordinance for each and every building shall not be encroached upon or
considered as meeting the yard and open space requirements of any other
building.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.5; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.25 LOT REQUIREMENTS/DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Insofar as practical, side lot lines which are not right-of-way lines
shall be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street
lines.
   (B)   Every lot shall have sufficient area, dimensions and street access to
permit a principal building to be erected thereon in compliance with all lot
size and dimensions, yard space, setback and other requirements of this Unified
Development Ordinance.
   (C)   The location of required front, side and rear yards on irregularly
shaped lots shall be determined by the UDO Administrator. The determination
will be based on the spirit and intent of this Unified Development Ordinance to
achieve an appropriate spacing and location of buildings and structures on
individual lots.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.6; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.26 STREET INTERSECTION SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE.
   (A)   The land adjoining a street intersection or egress to a street from
off-street parking areas shall be kept clear of obstructions to protect the
visibility and safety of motorists and pedestrians.
   (B)   On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed or allowed to grow
in a manner so as materially to impede vision between a height of three feet
and ten feet in a triangular area formed by a diagonal line between two points
on the right-of-way lines, 20 feet from where they intersect.
   (C)   A clear view shall be maintained on corner lots from three to ten feet
in vertical distance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.7; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.27 NO USE OR SALE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS EXCEPT IN CONFORMITY WITH UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Subject to §§
91.110 through
91.116 of this Unified Development Ordinance (Nonconforming Situations), no
person may use, occupy or sell any land or buildings or authorize or permit the
use, occupancy or sale of land or buildings under his or her control except in
accordance with all of the applicable provisions of this Unified Development
Ordinance.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the USE or OCCUPANCY of a building or
land relates to anything and everything that is done to, on or in that building
or land.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.8; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.28 HEIGHT LIMITATION EXCEPTIONS.
   Church steeples, chimneys, belfries, water tanks or towers, fire towers,
flag poles, spires, wireless and broadcasting towers, monuments, cupolas,
domes, antennas (except satellite dish antennas) and similar structures and
necessary mechanical appurtenances are not subject to the height limit
regulations contained in this Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.9; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.29 LOT SIZE WITHOUT ALL PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All lots not served by public or community sewer and/or water shall meet the
minimum lot size requirements established by the Brunswick County Health
Department.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.10; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.30 PROPERTY DEDICATED FOR PRIVATE USE.
   Any property dedicated for private ownership, including, but not limited to,
property owners’ association ownership, for any use permitted by this Unified
Development Ordinance is not the maintenance responsibility of the town.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.11; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.31 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No temporary building will be constructed in the town zoning
jurisdiction for commercial or residential use.
   (B)   However, temporary buildings may be authorized upon issuance of a
temporary certificate of occupancy by the Building Inspector under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   As a facility for use as a sales office during development of a
subdivision. Such, however, must be located on the property of the subdivision;
      (2)   As a construction site office, storage area; provided, however,
such is located on the construction site and is not used for residential
purposes;
      (3)   As a site for temporary residence under circumstances where a
residence has been destroyed by fire or an act of God; provided, however, that
there is clear intent to rebuild the destroyed property in compliance with §§
91.110 through
91.116, Nonconforming Situations. Such, however, does not include use of a
temporary residence during the initial development of a residential property;
and
      (4)   As a temporary facility in connection with town activities or other
civic uses which shall be authorized by the UDO Administrator.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.12; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.32 BUSINESS USES OF MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS.
   No manufactured home or trailer shall be used in any manner for business or
commercial purposes except when used for a sales office on a manufactured home
sales lot or when used as a temporary use in accordance with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Mobile offices.
      (1)   Mobile offices may be used on a temporary basis for such purposes
as construction offices, blood mobiles, book mobiles and traveling museums.
However, such uses must obtain a temporary occupancy permit from the UDO
Administrator for UDO compliance if the use is to last more than 48 hours at
one site.
      (2)   Mobile offices may also be used for other office or business
purposes in cases where the permanent structure has been destroyed through no
fault of the owner or tenant. A temporary occupancy permit must be obtained
before the use of the mobile office is initiated. This occupancy permit shall
be valid for a specified period of time while reconstruction takes place not to
exceed six months and may be renewed no more than once.
   (B)   Manufactured homes. Temporary use of a manufactured home as a
residence shall be permitted in any residential district in cases where the
permanent home has been destroyed through no fault of the owner or tenant. A
temporary occupancy permit must be obtained from the UDO Administrator for UDO
compliance before the use of the manufactured home is initiated. This occupancy
permit shall be valid for a specified period of time not to exceed six months
while reconstruction takes place and may be renewed no more than once.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.13; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.33 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT DRIVEWAY REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct, reconstruct or repair any driveway within the
town right-of-way without first obtaining from the UDO Administrator a zoning
permit to do so. Such person shall construct, reconstruct and repair such
driveway under the supervision of the UDO Administrator, and in accordance with
town standards. All driveway improvements constructed in a public right-of-way
are the responsibility of the adjacent property owner(s). The town may remove
or alter such improvements at its discretion. Minor repairs, such as sealing
and patching of cracks, may be exempted by the UDO Administrator.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.14; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.34 FEES.
   (A)   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration,
inspection, publication of notice and similar matters may be charged to
applicants for all permits issued under this Unified Development Ordinance,
subdivision plat approval, site plan approval, zoning amendments, variances,
changes to Unified Development Ordinance text and map, and other administrative
relief. The amount of the fees charged shall be as set forth in the town’s
budget or as established by resolution of the Board of Commissioners filed in
the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Fees established in accordance with division (A) above shall be paid
upon submission of a signed application or notice of appeal.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.15; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.35 SPLIT JURISDICTION.
   If a parcel of land lies within the planning and development regulation
jurisdiction of more than one local government, the Town of Carolina Shores and
Brunswick County may by mutual agreement and with the written consent of the
landowner assign exclusive planning and development regulation jurisdiction for
the entire parcel to either the town or the county. Such a mutual agreement
shall only be applicable to development regulations and shall not affect
taxation or other non-regulatory matters. The mutual agreement shall be
evidenced by a resolution formally adopted by each governing board and recorded
with the Brunswick County register of deeds within 14 days of the adoption of
the last required resolution.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.36 PENDING JURISDICTION.
   After consideration of a change in local government jurisdiction has been
formally proposed, the local government that is potentially receiving
jurisdiction may receive and process proposals to adopt development regulations
and any application for development approvals that would be required in that
local government if the jurisdiction is changed. No final decisions shall be
made on any development approval prior to the actual transfer of jurisdiction.
Acceptance of jurisdiction, adoption of development regulations, and decisions
on development approvals may be made concurrently and may have a common
effective date.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.37—91.39 RESERVED.
ADMINISTRATIVE/LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
§ 91.40 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
   (A)   Authorization. In accordance with G.S. § 160D-402, the town may
appoint administrators, inspectors, enforcement officers, planners,
technicians, and other staff to develop, administer, and enforce this chapter.
The person or persons to whom these functions are assigned shall be referred to
in this chapter as the UDO Administrator.
   (B)   Duties. Duties assigned to staff may include, but are not limited to,
drafting and implementing plans and development regulations to be adopted
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D; determining whether applications for development
approvals are complete; receipt and processing applications for development
approvals; providing notices of applications and hearings; making decisions and
determinations regarding development regulation implementation; determining
whether applications for development approvals meet applicable standards as
established by law and local ordinance; conducting inspections; issuing or
denying certificates of compliance or occupancy; enforcing development
regulations, including issuing notices of violation, orders to correct
violations, and recommending bringing judicial actions against actual or
threatened violations; and recommending bringing judicial actions against
actual or threatened violations; keeping adequate records; and any other
actions that may be required in order to adequately enforce the laws and
development regulations under the town’s jurisdiction. A development regulation
may require that designated staff members take an oath of office. The town
shall have the authority to enact ordinances, procedures, and fee schedules
relating to the administration and the enforcement of this UDO. The
administrative and enforcement provisions related to building permits set forth
in Article 11 of G.S. Chapter 160D shall be followed for those permits.
   (C)   Alternative staff arrangements. The town may enter into contracts with
another city, county, or combination thereof under which the parties agree to
create a joint staff for the enforcement of state and local laws specified in
the agreement. The governing boards of the contracting parties may make any
necessary appropriations for this purchase.
      (1)   In lieu of joint staff, the Board of Commissioners may designate
staff from any other city or county to serve as a member of its staff with the
approval of the Board of the other city or county. A staff member, if
designated from another city or county under this section, shall, while
exercising the duties of the position, be considered an agent of the town. The
Board of Commissioners may request the governing board of the second local
government to direct one or more of the second local government’s staff members
to exercise their powers within part or all of the town’s jurisdiction, and
they shall thereupon be empowered to do so until the town officially withdraws
its request in the manner provided in G.S. § 160D-202.
      (2)   The town may contract with an individual, company, council of
governments, regional planning agency, metropolitan planning organization, or
rural planning agency to designate an individual who is not a city or county
employee to work under the supervision of the local government to exercise the
functions authorized by this section. The town shall have the same potential
liability, if any, for inspections conducted by an individual who is not an
employee of the town as it does for an individual who is an employee of the
town. The company or individual with whom the town contract shall have errors
and omissions and other insurance coverage acceptable to the town.
   (D)   Financial support. The town may appropriate for the support of the
staff for any funds that it deems necessary. It shall have the power to fix
reasonable fees for support, administration, and implementation of programs
authorized by this chapter and all such fees shall be used for no other
purposes. When an inspection, for which the permit holder has paid a fee to the
town, is performed by a marketplace pool code-enforcement official upon request
of the Insurance Commissioner under G.S. § 143-151.12(9)a, the town shall
promptly return to the permit holder the fee collected by the town for such
inspection. This applies to the following inspections: plumbing, electrical
systems, general building restrictions and regulations, heating and air-
conditioning, and the general construction of buildings.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.41 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Authority. The Planning Board of the town is created pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-301.
   (B)   Purpose. The Planning Board shall act in an advisory capacity to the
Board of Commissioners in the matter of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated
and harmonious development of the area within the town jurisdiction.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   Generally. The Planning Board shall consist of five members and two
alternates. Four of the members and the alternates shall be residents of the
town and shall be appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners; provided,
however, one of the alternates may reside in the ETJ. The initial terms shall
be three years for two members and the two alternates, and two years for the
remaining two members. All terms shall be three years thereafter. The term of
the member appointed by the County Commissioners pursuant to division (C)(2)
below shall be three years. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than
expiration of term shall be filled by the Town Board of Commissioners as they
occur for the period of the unexpired term. Members may be removed from office
by the Town Board of Commissioners for neglect of duty, failure to attend three
consecutive meetings, or failure to attend 75% of the meetings. A written
statement of the reasons for removal shall be filed with the Town Clerk at the
time of removal.
      (2)   County resident member. The remaining one member shall be a
resident of Brunswick County who resides outside the town but within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town and shall be appointed by the
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners. The county representation must be
proportional based on the population for residents of the ETJ area. The
population estimates for this calculation must be updated following each
decennial census. If a vacancy occurs for reasons other than expiration of
term, it shall be filled by the County Board of Commissioners for the period of
the unexpired term. The member may be removed from office for reasons
previously cited. However, if such were to occur, a written statement of the
reasons for removal shall be requested from the County Board of Commissioners
by the Town Board of Commissioners at the time of removal.
   (D)   Jurisdiction and voting. The member appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners shall have equal rights, privileges and duties with the other
members of the Planning Board in all matters pertaining to the regulation of
both the extraterritorial area and the areas within the corporate limits.
Majority of the sitting members of the Planning Board shall constitute a quorum
for the taking of any official action. All appointed members shall, before
entering their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office.
   (E)   Operational procedures.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson, and create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary.
      (2)   The term of the Chairperson and other offices shall be one year,
with eligibility for re-election. The election shall be held the first regular
meeting in January, or as soon thereafter as possible.
      (3)   Proceedings of the Planning Board shall be conducted in accord with
Robert’s Rules of Order or other rules as may be adopted by the Planning Board.
      (4)   A record shall be maintained of its members’ attendance and of its
resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations which shall be a public
record.
      (5)   The Planning Board shall hold publicly-advertised meetings as
necessary to conduct business, and all of its meetings shall be open to the
public.
      (6)   Majority of the sitting members of the Planning Board shall
constitute a quorum for taking any official action.
      (7)   To recommend to the Board of Commissioners the approval or
disapproval of major site plans and major subdivisions in accordance with §
91.64.
   (F)   General powers and duties. The general powers and duties of the
Planning Board (with prior approval by the Board of Commissioners) are:
      (1)   Prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update and
recommend to the Board of Commissioners and such other plans as deemed
appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data collection, mapping,
and analysis.
      (2)   Facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and participation in
the planning process.
      (3)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, development
regulations, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner.
      (4)   To approve major site plans and major subdivisions in accordance
with §
91.64.
      (5)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the implementation of
plans, including, but not limited to, review and comment on all zoning text and
map amendments as required by G.S. § 160D-604.
      (6)   Perform any other duties that the Board of Commissioners may
lawfully assign to it.
      (7)   In order to effectively carry out its powers and duties, the
Planning Board is empowered to:
         (a)   With prior approval of the Board of Commissioners, gather
statistics on past trends and present conditions with respect to population,
property values, the economic base of the area and land use; and such other
information as is important or likely to be important in determining the
amount, direction and kind of development within the town’s jurisdiction and
its various parts;
         (b)   With prior approval by the Board of Commissioners, make, cause
to be made, or obtain special studies on the location, the condition and the
adequacy of specific facilities, which may include, but are not limited to,
studies of housing; commercial and industrial facilities; recreation area;
public facilities; and traffic and parking facilities; and
         (c)   Develop committees comprised of Planning Board members dedicated
to participating in any areas of study, ordinance development, or for any other
specific purpose within the Planning Board’s jurisdiction. Such committees
shall be responsible to the Planning Board and shall be advisory in nature. The
development/appointment of any other committees will require prior approval by
the Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   Miscellaneous powers and duties. The Planning Board shall have the
authority to promote public interest in the understanding of its
recommendations, plans, reports and other materials. With prior approval of the
Board of Commissioners, the Planning Board may publish and distribute copies of
materials and may employ other means of publicity and education as it deems
necessary.
   (H)   Zoning amendments. The Planning Board may initiate from time to time
proposals for amendments of the UDO and Zoning Map, based upon its studies and
plans. It shall review and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners
concerning all proposed amendments to the UDO and Zoning Map.
   (I)   Subdivision regulations. The Planning Board shall review, from time to
time, the existing regulations for the control of land subdivision in the area
and submit to the Board of Commissioners its recommendations, if any, for the
revision of these regulations.
   (J)   Public hearings. The Planning Board may conduct such public hearings
as may be required to gather information necessary for the drafting,
establishment and maintenance of the plans. Before recommending any such plans
to the Board of Commissioners, the Planning Board may hold a public hearing
thereon in accordance with §§
91.50 through
91.57.
   (K)   Annual report. The Planning Board may each year submit in writing to
the Board of Commissioners a report of its activities, and an analysis of the
expenditures to date for the current fiscal year; and shall submit to the Board
of Commissioners for budget consideration its requested budget of funds needed
for operation during the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 3.3; Am. Ord. 15-2, passed 3-5-2015; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.42 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Membership. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members
(also concurrent members of the Planning Board) and two alternates. Four
members and the alternates shall be residents of the town and shall be
appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners; provided, however, one of the
alternates may reside in the extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ). One member
shall be appointed by the County Board of Commissioners and shall be a resident
of the ETJ. The county representation must be proportional based on the
population for residents of the ETJ area. The population estimates for this
calculation must be updated following each decennial census. The initial terms
for members appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners shall be three years
for two members and the two alternates, and two years for the remaining two
members. The term of the member appointed by the County Commissioners shall
also be three years. All terms shall be three years thereafter. All members of
the Board of Adjustment, and alternates (when sitting in the absence of a
member), shall have equal voting rights in all matters being considered by the
Board of Adjustment. Members of the Board of Adjustment and alternates serving
at the time of adoption of this Unified Development Ordinance shall continue in
office until such time as the terms of their office expire or action is taken
to remove as described in division (A)(2) below. Vacancies occurring for
reasons other than expiration of terms shall be filled by the Board of
Commissioners (in the case of the ETJ member, by the County Board of
Commissioners), as such may occur and for the period of the unexpired term. All
appointed members shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking an
oath of office.
      (1)   Conditions. All members wishing to sit on the Board of Adjustment
shall attend a scheduled seminar on the statutory powers and duties of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Removal. Members may be removed from office by the Board of
Commissioners for just cause, including neglect of duty. A written statement of
the reasons for removal shall be filed with the Town Clerk at the time of
removal.
      (3)   Officers. The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and a
Vice Chairperson from its membership and such other officers as the Board of
Adjustment deems best.
      (4)   Meetings. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the majority of the Board of
Adjustment may determine. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open
to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its procedures,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, an indication of such fact; and final disposition of appeals shall be
taken, all of which shall be of public record.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide requests for variances and appeals of decisions
of administrative officials charged with enforcement of this Unified
Development Ordinance. As used in this section, the term DECISION includes any
final and binding order, requirement or determination. The Board of Adjustment
shall follow quasi-judicial procedures when deciding appeals and requests for
variances. The Board shall hear and decide all matters upon which it is
required to pass under any statute or ordinance that regulates land use or
development. If any Board other than the Board of Adjustment is assigned
decision-making authority for any quasi-judicial matter, that Board shall
comply with all of the procedures and the process applicable to a Board of
Adjustment in making quasi-judicial decisions;
      (2)   To make interpretations of the Official Zoning Map and to pass upon
disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and similar
questions as arise in the administration of the Unified Development Ordinance;
and
      (3)   Any other matter the Board is required to act upon by any other
city ordinance.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules of
procedure for the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of
this Unified Development Ordinance. Such rules of procedure shall not be
effective until approved by the Board of Commissioners. All meetings held by
the Board of Adjustment shall be held in accordance with G.S. Chapter 143A,
Article 33 B, or as may be amended. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings suitable for review in court showing:
      (1)   The factual evidence presented to the Board of Adjustment by all
parties concerned;
      (2)   The findings of fact and the reasons for the determinations by the
Board of Adjustment; and
      (3)   The vote of each member, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, all of which shall be public record and be filed with the
office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Quorum and voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the members
of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to grant a variance. A majority
of the members shall be required to decide any other quasi-judicial matter or
to determine an appeal made in the nature of certiorari. For the purposes of
this section, vacant positions on the Board of Adjustment and members who are
disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered
members of the Board of Adjustment for calculation of the requisite majority if
there are no qualified alternates available to take the place of such members.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 3.4; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.43 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Governing Board. A Board of Commissioners member shall not vote on any
legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to
G.S. Chapter 160D where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. A Board of Commissioners member shall not vote
on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (B)   Appointed Boards. Members of appointed boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D where the outcome of the matter being considered
is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (C)   Administrative staff.
      (1)   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative
decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff
member or if the applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person
with whom the staff member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of interest under
this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff
person or such other staff person as may be designated by this chapter.
      (2)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town,
as determined by the town.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any Board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons’
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (E)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a Board member’s
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on that matter, and that
member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the Board
shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (F)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a close familial
relationship means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.44—91.49 RESERVED.
LEGISLATIVE/QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURES
§ 91.50 PROCESS FOR ADOPTION OF DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Procedure for adopting, amending, or repealing this chapter.
      (1)   Hearing with published notice. Before adopting, amending, or
repealing any ordinance or development regulation authorized by G.S. Chapter
160D, the Town Board of Commissioners shall hold a legislative hearing. A
notice of the hearing shall be given once a week for two successive calendar
weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall
be published the first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before
the date scheduled for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of
publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing shall be included.
      (2)   A development regulation adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D
shall be adopted by ordinance.
      (3)   No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-zones
property shall be initiated shall it be enforceable without the written consent
of all property owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning
amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the town.
   (B)   Notice of hearing on proposed zoning map amendments.
      (1)   Mailed notice. This chapter provides for the manner in which zoning
regulations and the boundaries of zoning districts are determined, established,
and enforced, and from time to time may be amended, or changed, in accordance
with the requirements of this section. The owners of affected parcels of land
and the owners of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land shall be
mailed a notice of the hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment by first-
class mail at the last address listed for such owners on the county tax
abstracts. For the purpose of this section, properties are “abutting” even if
separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation corridor. This notice
must be deposited in the mail at least ten but not more than 25 days prior to
the date of the hearing. If the zoning map amendment is being proposed in
conjunction with an expansion of the town’s ETJ, a single hearing on the zoning
map amendment and the boundary amendment may be held. In this instance, the
initial notice of the zoning map amendment hearing may be combined with the
boundary hearing notice and the combined hearing notice mailed at least 30 days
prior to the hearing.
      (2)   Optional notice for large- scale zoning map amendments. The first
class mail notice required under division (B) of this section shall not be
required if the zoning map amendment proposes to change the zoning designation
of more than 50 properties, owned by at least 50 different property owners, and
the town elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this
division. In this instance, the town may elect to make the mailed notice
provided for in division (B)(1) or, as an alternative, elect to publish notice
of the hearing as required by §
91.50(A), provided that each advertisement shall not be less than one-half of a
newspaper page in size. The advertisement shall only be effective for property
owners who reside in the area of general circulation of the newspaper that
publishes the notice. Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper
circulation area, according to the address listed on the most recent property
tax listing for the affected property, shall be notified according to the
provisions of division(B)(1) above.
      (3)   Posted notice. When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the town
shall prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site proposed for the
amendment or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. The notice
shall be posted within the same time period specified for mailed notices of the
hearing. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map
amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required but the town
shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to interested
persons.
      (4)   Actual notice. Except for town-initiated zoning map amendment, when
an application is filed to request a zoning map amendment and that application
is not made by the landowner or authorized agent, the applicant shall certify
to the town that the owner of the parcel of land as shown on the county tax
listing has received actual notice of the proposed amendment and a copy of the
notice of the hearing. Actual notice shall be provided in any manner permitted
under G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 4(j). If notice cannot with due diligence be achieved
by personal delivery, certified mail, or by a designated delivery authorized
pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 7502(f)(2), notice may be given by publication
consistent with G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 4(j1). The person or persons required to
provide notice shall certify to the town that actual notice has been provided,
and such certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (C)   Citizen comments. Subject to the limitations of this chapter,
zoning regulations may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed,
modified, or repealed. If any resident or property owner in the town submits a
written statement regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to a
zoning regulation, including a text or map amendment, to the Town Clerk at
least two business days prior to the proposed vote on such change, the Town
Clerk shall deliver such written statement to the Board of Commissioners. If
the proposed change is the subject of a quasi-judicial proceeding under G.S. §
160D-705 or any other statute, the Town Clerk shall provide only the names and
addresses of the individuals providing written comment, and the provision of
such names and addresses to all members of the Board shall not disqualify any
member of the Board from voting.
   (D)   Planning Board review and comment.
      (1)   Zoning amendments. Subsequent to initial adoption of a zoning
regulation, all proposed amendments to the zoning regulations or zoning map
shall be submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. If no written
report is received from the Planning Board within 30 days of referral of the
amendment to that Board, the Board of Commissioners may act on the amendment
without the Planning Board report. The Board of Commissioners is not bound by
the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board.
      (2)   Review of other ordinances and actions. Any development regulations
other than a zoning regulation that is proposed to be adopted pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160D may be referred to the Planning Board for review and comment. Any
development regulation other than a zoning regulation may provide that future
proposed amendments of that ordinance be submitted to the Planning Board for
review and comment. Any other action proposed to be taken pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160D may be referred to the Planning Board for review or comment.
      (3)   Plan consistency. When conducting a review of proposed zoning text
or map amendments pursuant to this section, the Planning Board shall advise and
comment on whether the proposed action is consistent with any comprehensive
plan that has been adopted and any other officially adopted plan that is
applicable. The Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the
Board of Commissioners that addresses plan consistency and other matters as
deemed appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board
that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the Board of
Commissioners. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large-scale rezoning”
under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Planning Board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendations
made.
      (4)   Separate board required. Notwithstanding the authority to assign
duties of the Planning Board to the Board of Commissioners as provided by this
chapter, the review and comment required by this section shall not be assigned
to the Board of Commissioners and must be performed by a separate board.
   (E)   Board of Commissioners statement.
      (1)   Plan consistency. When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map
amendment, the Board of Commissioners shall approve a brief statement
describing whether its action is consistent or inconsistent with an adopted
comprehensive plan. The requirement for a plan consistency statement may also
be met by a clear indication in the minutes of the Board of Commissioners that
at the time of action on the amendment the Board was aware of and considered
the Planning Board’s recommendations and any relevant portions of an adopted
comprehensive plan. If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the action was
deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the
effect of also amending any future land use map in the approved plan, and no
additional application or fee for a plan amendment shall be required. A plan
amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered concurrently. The plan
consistency amendment is not subject to judicial review. If a zoning map
amendment qualifies as a “large scale rezoning” under §
91.50(B), the Board of Commissioners statement describing plan consistency may
address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the
relevant adopted plans were considered in the action taken.
      (2)   Additional reasonableness statement for rezonings. When adopting or
rejecting any petition for a zoning map amendment, a statement analyzing the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners. This statement of reasonableness may consider, among other
factors, (i) the size, physical condition, and other attributes of the area
proposed to be rezoned, (ii) the benefits and detriments to the landowners, the
neighbors, and the surrounding community, (iii) the relationship between the
current actual and permissible development on the tract and adjoining areas and
the development that would be permissible under the proposed amendment, (iv)
why the action taken is in the public interest; and (v) any changed conditions
warranting the amendment. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large scale
rezoning” under §
91.50(B), the Board of Commissioners statement on reasonableness may address
the overall rezoning.
      (3)   Single statement permissible. The statement of reasonableness and
the plan consistency statement required by this section may be approved as a
single statement.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 4.1; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.51 MORATORIA.
   In accordance with G.S. § 160D-107, the town may adopt temporary moratoria
on any development approval required by law, except for the purpose of
developing and adopting new or amended plans or development regulations
governing residential uses. The duration of any moratorium shall be reasonable
in light of the specific conditions that warrant imposition of the moratorium
and may not exceed the period of time necessary to correct, modify, or resolve
such conditions.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 4.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.52 VESTED RIGHTS AND PERMIT CHOICE.
   (A)   Findings. Town approval of development typically follows significant
investment in site evaluation, planning, development costs, consultant fees,
and related expenses. Therefore, it is necessary and desirable to provide for
the establishment of certain vested rights in order to ensure reasonable
certainty, stability, and fairness in the development regulation process,
secure reasonable expectations of landowners, and foster cooperation between
the public and private sectors in land-use planning and development regulation.
   (B)   Permit choice. If an application made in accordance with local
regulation is submitted for a development approval required pursuant to this
chapter and a development regulation changes between the time the application
was submitted and a decision is made, the applicant may choose which version of
the development regulation will apply to the application. If the development
permit applicant chooses the version of the rule or ordinance applicable at the
time of the permit application, the development permit applicant shall not be
required to await the outcome of the amendment to the rule, map, or ordinance
prior to acting on the development permit. This section applies to all
development approvals issued by the state and by local governments. The
duration of vested rights created by development approvals are as set forth in
division (D).
   (C)   Process to claim vested right. A person claiming a statutory or common
law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim to the UDO
Administrator, who shall make an initial determination as to the existence of
the vested right. The UDO Administrator's determination may be appealed under
G.S. § 160D-405. On appeal the existence of a vested right shall be reviewed de
novo. In lieu of seeking such a determination, a person claiming a vested right
may bring an original civil action as provided in G.S. § 160D-405(c).
   (D)   Types and duration of statutory vested rights. Except as provided by
this section and subject to division (B), amendments to this chapter shall not
be applicable or enforceable with regard to development that has been permitted
or approved pursuant to this chapter so long as one of the approvals listed in
this division remains valid and unexpired. Each type of vested right listed
below is defined by and is subject to the limitations provided in this section
and the cited statutes. Vested rights established under this section are not
mutually exclusive. The establishment of a vested right under one division does
not preclude vesting under one or more other divisions or by common law
principles.
      (1)   Six months - building permits. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1110, a
building permit expires six months after issuance unless work under the permit
has commenced. Building permits also expire if work is discontinued for a
period of 12 months after work has commenced.
      (2)   One year - other local development approvals. Pursuant to G.S. §
160D-403(c), unless otherwise specified by this section, statute, or local
ordinance, all other local development approvals expire one year after issuance
unless work has substantially commenced. Expiration of a local development
approval does not affect the duration of a vested right established as a site-
specific vesting plan, a multiphase development plan, a development agreement,
or vested rights established under common law.
      (3)   Two to five years - site specific vesting plans.
         (a)   Duration. A vested right for a site-specific vesting plan shall
remain vested for a period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by
any amendments or modifications to a site-specific vesting plan unless
expressly provided by the town. The town may provide that rights regarding a
site specific vesting plan shall be vested for a period exceeding two years,
but not exceeding five years if warranted by the size and phasing of
development, the level of investment, the need for the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions or other considerations. This determination shall
be made in the discretion of the town and shall be made following the process
specified by division (D)(3) below for the particular form of a site-specific
vesting plan involved.
         (b)   Relationship to building permits. A right vested as provided in
this division shall terminate at the end of the applicable vesting period with
respect to buildings and uses for which no valid building permit applications
have been filed. Upon issuance of a building permit, the provisions of G.S. §§
160D-1110 and 160D-1113 shall apply, except that the permit shall not expire or
be revoked because of the running of time while a vested right under this
section exists.
         (c)   Requirements for site specific vesting plans. For the purposes
of this section, a "site-specific vesting plan" means a plan submitted to the
town describing with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a
specific parcel or parcels of property. The plan may be in the form of, but not
be limited to, any of the following plans or approvals: a planned unit
development plan, a subdivision plat, a site plan, a preliminary or general
development plan, a special use permit, a conditional zoning, or any other
development approval as may be used by the town. Unless otherwise expressly
provided by the town, the plan shall include the approximate boundaries of the
site; significant topographical and other natural features effecting
development of the site; the approximate location on the site of the proposed
buildings, structures, and other improvements; the approximate dimensions,
including height, of the proposed buildings and other structures; and the
approximate location of all existing and proposed infrastructure on the site,
including water, sewer, roads, and pedestrian walkways. The Town of Carolina
Shores uses existing development approvals, such as a preliminary plat, a
special use permit, or a conditional zoning, to approve a site-specific vesting
plan. A variance shall not constitute a "site specific vesting plan," and
approval of a site-specific vesting plan with the condition that a variance be
obtained shall not confer a vested right unless and until the necessary
variance is obtained. If a sketch plan or other document fails to describe with
reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a specified parcel or
parcels of property, it may not constitute a site-specific vesting plan.
         (d)   Process for approval and amendment of site-specific vesting
plans. If a site-specific vesting plan is based on an approval required by a
local development regulation, the town shall provide whatever notice and
hearing is required for that underlying approval. If the duration of the
underlying approval is less than two years, that shall not affect the duration
of the site-specific vesting established by this division. If the site-specific
vesting plan is not based on such an approval, a legislative hearing with
notice as required by G.S. § 160D-602 shall be held. The town may approve a
site-specific vesting plan upon such terms and conditions as may reasonably be
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. Such conditional
approval shall result in a vested right, although failure to abide by such
terms and conditions will result in a forfeiture of vested rights. The town
shall not require a landowner to waive vested rights as a condition of
developmental approval. A site-specific vesting plan shall be deemed approved
upon the effective date of the town's decision approving the plan or such other
date as determined by the Board of Commissioners upon approval. An approved
site specific vesting plan and its conditions may be amended with the approval
of the owner and the town as follows: Any substantial modification must be
reviewed and approved in the same manner as the original approval; minor
modifications may be approved by staff, if such are defined and authorized by
local regulation.
      (4)   Seven years - multi-phase developments. A multi-phase development
shall be vested for the entire development with the Unified Development
Ordinance in place at the time a site plan approval is granted for the initial
phase of the multi-phase development. This right shall remain vested for a
period of seven years from the time a site plan approval is granted for the
initial phase of the multi-phase development. For the purposes of this
division, "multi-phase development" means a development containing 100 acres of
more that: (i) is submitted for site plan approval for construction to occur in
more than one phase; and (ii) is subject to a master development plan with
committed elements, including a requirement to offer land for public use as a
condition of its master development plan approval.
      (5)   Indefinite - development agreements. A vested right of reasonable
duration may be specified in a development agreement approved under §
91.53 of this chapter.
   (E)   Continuing review. Following approval or conditional approval of a
statutory vested right, the town may make subsequent reviews and require
approvals by the town to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the
original approval, provided that such reviews and approvals are not
inconsistent with the original approval. The town may revoke the original
approval for failure to comply with applicable terms and conditions of the
original approval or the applicable local development regulations.
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A vested right, once established as provided for by divisions (C)
or (D) of §
91.52, precludes any zoning action by a local government that would change,
alter, impair prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of
the property as set forth in an approved vested right, except:
         (a)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
         (b)   Upon findings, after notice and an evidentiary hearing, that
natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of the property, if
uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health, and safety, and
welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the approved vested
right;
         (c)   To the extent that the affected landowner receives compensation
for all costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including,
but not limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all
architectural, planning, marketing, legal, and other consultant's fees incurred
after approval by the town, together with interest as is provided in §
91.13. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the
property that is caused by such action;
         (d)   Upon findings, after notice and an evidentiary hearing, that the
landowner or his representative intentionally supplied inaccurate information
or made material misrepresentations that made a difference in the approval by
the town of the vested right; or
         (e)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the approved vested
right, in which case the town may modify the affected provisions, upon a
finding that the change in state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the
plan, after notice and an evidentiary hearing.
      (2)   The establishment of a vested right under divisions (C) or (D) of §
91.52, shall not preclude the application of overlay zoning or other
development regulation that imposes additional requirements but does not affect
the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations that are
general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to development
regulation by the town including, but not limited to, building, fire, plumbing,
electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new regulations shall
become effective with respect to property that is subject to a vested right
established under this section upon the expiration or termination of the vested
rights period provided for in this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of
a vested right under this section shall not preclude, change or impair the
authority of the town to adopt and enforce development regulation provisions
governing nonconforming situations or uses.
   (G)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   A vested right obtained under this section is not a personal right,
but shall attach to and run with the applicable property. After approval of a
vested right under this section, all successors to the original landowner shall
be entitled to exercise such rights.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall preclude judicial determination,
based on common law principles or other statutory provisions, that a vested
right exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred.
Except as expressly provided in this section, nothing in this section shall be
construed to alter the existing common law.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160D-405(c) was repealed by Session Laws 2020-25, s. 10, effective
June 19, 2020.
§ 91.53 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization.
      (1)   In accordance with G.S. § 160D-1002, the Town of Carolina Shores
finds:
         (a)   Development projects often occur in multiple phases over several
years, requiring a long-term commitment of both public and private resources.
         (b)   Such developments often create community impacts and
opportunities that are difficult to accommodate within traditional zoning
processes.
         (c)   Because of their scale and duration, such projects often require
careful coordination of public capital facilities planning, financing, and
construction schedules and phasing of the private development.
         (d)   Such projects involve substantial commitments of private capital
which developers are usually unwilling to risk without sufficient assurances
that development standards will remain stable through the extended period of
the development.
         (e)   Such developments often permit communities and developers to
experiment with different or nontraditional types of development concepts and
standards, while still managing impacts on the surrounding areas.
         (f)   To better structure and manage development approvals for such
developments and ensure their proper integration into local capital facilities
programs, the town needs flexibility to negotiate such developments.
      (2)   The town may enter into development agreements with developers,
subject to the procedures of this section. In entering into such agreements,
the town may not exercise any authority or make any commitment not authorized
by general or local act and may not impose any tax or fee not authorized by
otherwise applicable law.
      (3)   This section is supplemental to the powers conferred upon the town
and does not preclude or supersede rights and obligations established pursuant
to other law regarding development approvals, site-specific vesting plans,
phased vesting plans, or other provisions of law. A development agreement shall
not exempt the property owner or developer from compliance with the state
Building Code or State or local housing codes that are not part of the town's
development regulations. When the Board of Commissioners approves the rezoning
of any property associated with a development agreement executed and recorded
pursuant to this section, the provisions of §
91.50(E) apply.
      (4)   Development authorized by a development agreement shall comply with
all applicable laws, including all ordinances, resolutions, regulations,
permits, policies, and laws affecting the development of property, including
laws governing permitted uses of the property, density, intensity, design, and
improvements.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions apply in this chapter:
      (1)   DEVELOPMENT. The planning for or carrying out of a building
activity, the making of a material change in the use or appearance of any
structure or property, or the dividing of land into two or more parcels. When
appropriate to the context, DEVELOPMENT refers to the planning for or the act
of developing or to the result of development. Reference to a specific
operation is not intended to mean that the operation or activity, when part of
other operations or activities, is not development. Reference to particular
operations is not intended to limit the generality of this item.
      (2)   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Major capital improvements, including, but not
limited to, transportation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable
water, educational, parks and recreational, and health systems and facilities.
   (C)   Approval of Board of Commissioners required.
      (1)   The Town of Carolina Shores may establish procedures and
requirements, as provided in this division, to consider and enter into
development agreements with developers. A development agreement must be
approved by the Board of Commissioners following the procedures specified in
division (E).
      (2)   The development agreement may, by ordinance, be incorporated, in
whole or in part, into any development regulation adopted by the town. A
development agreement may be considered concurrently with a zoning map or text
amendment affecting the property and development subject to the development
agreement. A development agreement may be concurrently considered with and
incorporated by reference with a sketch plan or preliminary plat required under
a subdivision regulation or a site plan or other development approval required
under a zoning regulation. If incorporated into a conditional district, the
provisions of the development agreement shall be treated as a development
regulation in the event of the developer's bankruptcy.
   (D)   Size and duration. The Town of Carolina Shores may enter into a
development agreement with a developer for the development of property as
provided in this chapter for developable property of any size. Development
agreements shall be of a reasonable term specified in the agreement.
   (E)   Public hearing. Before entering into a development agreement, the town
shall conduct a legislative hearing on the proposed agreement. The notice
provisions of §
91.50(B) applicable to zoning map amendments shall be followed for this
hearing. The notice for the public hearing must specify the location of the
property subject to the development agreement, the development uses proposed on
the property, and must specify a place where a copy of the proposed development
agreement can be obtained.
   (F)   Content and modification.
      (1)   A development agreement shall, at a minimum, include all of the
following:
         (a)   A description of the property subject to the agreement and the
names of its legal and equitable property owners.
         (b)   The duration of the agreement. However, the parties are not
precluded from entering into subsequent development agreements that may extend
the original duration period.
         (c)   The development uses permitted on the property, including
population densities and building types, intensities, placement on the site,
and design.
         (d)   A description of public facilities that will serve the
development, including who provides the facilities, the date any new public
facilities, if needed, will be constructed, and a schedule to assure public
facilities are available concurrent with the impacts of the development. In the
event that the development agreement provides that the town shall provide
certain public facilities, the development agreement shall provide that the
delivery date of such public facilities will be tied to successful performance
by the developer in implementing the proposed development, such as meeting
defined completion percentages or other performance standards.
         (e)   A description, where appropriate, of any reservation or
dedication of land for public purposes and any provisions agreed to by the
developer that exceed existing laws related to protection of environmentally
sensitive property.
         (f)   A description, where appropriate, of any conditions, terms,
restrictions, or other requirements for the protection of public health,
safety, or welfare.
         (g)   A description, where appropriate, of any provisions for the
preservation and restoration of historic structures.
      (2)   A development agreement may also provide that the entire
development or any phase of it be commenced or completed within a specified
period of time. If required by ordinance or in the agreement, the development
agreement shall provide a development schedule, including commencement dates
and interim completion dates at no greater than five-year intervals; provided,
however, the failure to meet a commencement or completion date shall not, in
and of itself, constitute a material breach of the development agreement
pursuant to division (H) but must be judged based upon the totality of the
circumstances. The developer may request a modification in the dates as set
forth in the agreement.
      (3)   If more than one local government is made party to an agreement,
the agreement must specify which local government is responsible for the
overall administration of the development agreement. A local or regional
utility authority may also be made a party to the development agreement.
      (4)   The development agreement also may cover any other matter,
including defined performance standards, not inconsistent with this chapter.
The development agreement may include mutually acceptable terms regarding
provision of public facilities and other amenities and the allocation of
financial responsibility for their provision, provided any impact mitigation
measures offered by the developer beyond those that could be required by the
local government pursuant to G.S. § 160D-804 shall be expressly enumerated
within the agreement, and provided the agreement may not include a tax or
impact fee not otherwise authorized by law.
      (5)   Consideration of a proposed major modification of the agreement
shall follow the same procedures as required for initial approval of a
development agreement. What changes constitute a major modification may be
determined by ordinance adopted pursuant to subsection (C) or as provided for
in the development agreement.
      (6)   Any performance guarantees under the development agreement shall
comply with §
91.67(E)(4).
   (G)   Vesting.
      (1)   Unless the development agreement specifically provides for the
application of subsequently enacted laws, the laws applicable to development of
the property subject to a development agreement are those in force at the time
of execution of the agreement.
      (2)   Except for grounds specified in division (H)(5), the town may not
apply subsequently adopted ordinances or development policies to a development
that is subject to a development agreement.
      (3)   In the event state or federal law is changed after a development
agreement has been entered into and the change prevents or precludes compliance
with one or more provisions of the development agreement, the town may modify
the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law
has a fundamental effect on the development agreement.
      (4)   This section does not abrogate any vested rights otherwise
preserved by law.
   (H)   Breach and cure.
      (1)   Procedures established pursuant to division (C) may require
periodic review by the UDO Administrator or other appropriate officer of the
town, at which time the developer shall demonstrate good-faith compliance with
the terms of the development agreement.
      (2)   If the town finds and determines that the developer has committed a
material breach of the agreement, the town shall notify the developer in
writing setting forth with reasonable particularity the nature of the breach
and the evidence supporting the finding and determination and providing the
developer a reasonable time in which to cure the material breach.
      (3)   If the developer fails to cure the material breach within the time
given, then the town unilaterally may terminate or modify the development
agreement, provided the notice of termination or modification may be appealed
to the Board of Adjustment in the manner provided by §
91.54(A).
      (4)   An ordinance adopted pursuant to division (C) or the development
agreement may specify other penalties for breach in lieu of termination,
including, but not limited to, penalties allowed for violation of a development
regulation. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair
the power of the town to enforce applicable law.
      (5)   A development agreement shall be enforceable by any party to the
agreement notwithstanding any changes in the development regulations made
subsequent to the effective date of the development agreement. Any party to the
agreement may file an action for injunctive relief to enforce the terms of a
development agreement.
   (I)   Amendment or termination. Subject to the provisions of §
91.53(F)(5), a development agreement may be amended or terminated by mutual
consent of the parties.
   (J)   Change of jurisdiction.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, any development
agreement entered into by the town before the effective date of a change of
jurisdiction shall be valid for the duration of the agreement or eight years
from the effective date of the change in jurisdiction, whichever is earlier.
The parties to the development agreement and the town assuming jurisdiction
have the same rights and obligations with respect to each other regarding
matters addressed in the development agreement as if the property had remained
in the previous jurisdiction.
      (2)   The town, in assuming jurisdiction, may modify or suspend the
provisions of the development agreement if the town determines that the failure
of the town to do so would place the residents of the territory subject to the
development agreement or the residents of the town, or both, in a condition
dangerous to their health or safety, or both.
   (K)   Recordation. The developer shall record the agreement with the
Brunswick County Register of Deeds within 14 days after the town and developer
execute an approved development agreement. No development approvals may be
issued until the development agreement has been recorded. The burdens of the
development agreement are binding upon, and the benefits of the agreement shall
inure to, all successors in interest to the parties to the agreement.
   (L)   Applicability of procedures to approve debt. In the event that any of
the obligations of the town in the development agreement constitute debt, the
town shall comply, at the time of the obligation to incur the debt and before
the debt becomes enforceable against the town, with any applicable
constitutional and statutory procedures for the approval of this debt.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.54 APPEALS, VARIANCES AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Appeals.
      (1)   Standing. Any person who has standing as defined in Appendix A or
the town may appeal an administrative decision to the Board of Adjustment. An
appeal is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the Town Clerk. The notice of
appeal shall state the grounds for the appeal. A notice of appeal shall be
considered filed with the Town Clerk when delivered to the Town Hall, and the
date and time of filing shall be entered on the notice by the town staff.
      (2)   Judicial challenge. A person with standing may bring a separate and
original civil action to challenge the constitutionality of the chapter or that
it is ultra vires, preempted, or otherwise in excess of statutory authority
without filing an appeal under division (A)(1).
      (3)   Notice of decision. The official who made the decision shall give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the decision
and to the party who sought the decision, if different from the owner. The
written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail or by
first-class mail.
      (4)   Time to appeal. The owner or other party shall have 30 days from
receipt of the written notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal. Any other person with standing to appeal shall have 30 days from
receipt from any source of actual or constructive notice of the determination
within which to file an appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
notice pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(b) given by first class mail shall be deemed
received on the third business day following deposit of the notice for mailing
with the United States Postal Service.
      (5)   Record of decision. The official who made the decision shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all documents and exhibits constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from is taken. The official shall also
provide a copy of the record to the appellant and to the owner of the property
that is the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
      (6)   Stays. An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement
order stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines
assessed, unless the official who made the decision certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after notice of appeal has been filed that because of the facts
stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property
or because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously
interfere with enforcement of the Unified Development Ordinance. In that case,
enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by the Superior Court of Brunswick County. If enforcement
proceedings are not stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request
for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and the Board of Adjustment shall meet
to hear the appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a development
approval or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of property is consistent
with the Unified Development Ordinance shall not stay the further review of an
application for development approvals to use such property; in these
situations, the appellant or town may request and the Board may grant a stay of
a final decision of development approval applications, including building
permits affected by the issue being appealed.
      (7)   Alternative dispute resolution. The parties to an appeal that has
been made under this division (A) may agree to mediation or other forms of
alternative dispute resolution.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the UDO Administrator.
Applications shall be handled in the same manner as applications for
development approvals.
      (2)   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the
strict letter of the Unified Development Ordinance, the Board of Adjustment
shall vary any of the provisions of the Unified Development Ordinance upon a
showing of all of the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the Unified Development Ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate
that, in the absence of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the
property.
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose
and intent of the Unified Development Ordinance, such that public safety is
secured, and substantial justice is achieved.
      (3)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the
conditions are reasonably related to the variance. Any other development
regulation that regulates land use or development may provide for variances
from the provisions of those ordinances consistent with the provisions of this
division (B).
      (4)   The nature of the variance and any conditions attached to it shall
be entered on the face of the zoning permit, or the zoning permit may simply
note the issuance of the variance and refer to the written record of the
variance for further information. All such conditions are enforceable in the
same manner as any other applicable requirement of this Unified Development
Ordinance.
   (C)   Interpretations.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to interpret the zoning map
and to act upon disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and
similar questions. If such questions arise in the context of an appeal from a
decision of the UDO Administrator, they shall be handled as provided in
division (A) above.
      (2)   An application for a map interpretation shall be submitted to the
Board of Adjustment by filing a standard town appeal form with the UDO
Administrator. The application shall contain sufficient information to enable
the Board of Adjustment to make the necessary interpretation.
      (3)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown
on the Official Zoning Map, the rules of interpretation as specified in §
91.10 shall be applied. Where uncertainties continue to exist after application
of the above rules, appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment as provided
in division (A) above of this Unified Development Ordinance.
      (4)   Interpretations of the location of floodway and floodplain boundary
lines may be made by the UDO Administrator as provided in Part I. Flood Damage
Prevention of the Environmental Regulations.
   (D)   Requests to be heard expeditiously. As provided in §§
91.40 through
91.43, the Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide all applications, appeals,
variance requests and requests for interpretations, including map boundaries,
as expeditiously as possible, consistent with the need to follow regularly
established agenda procedures, provide notice in accordance with §
91.55(B), and obtain the necessary information to make sound decisions.
   (E)   Burden of proof in appeals and variances.
      (1)   When an appeal is taken to the Board of Adjustment in accordance
with division (A) above, the UDO Administrator shall have the initial burden of
presenting to the Board of Adjustment sufficient evidence and argument to
justify the order or decision appealed from. The burden of presenting evidence
and argument to the contrary then shifts to the appellant, who shall also have
the burden of persuasion.
      (2)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the Board of
Adjustment to reach the conclusions set forth in division (B)(2) above, as well
as the burden of persuasion on those issues, remains with the applicant seeking
the variance.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.55 QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Hearing required on appeals and applications.
      (1)   Before making a decision on an appeal or an application for a
variance, special use permit, or interpretation, or a petition from the
planning staff to revoke a special use permit, the Board of Adjustment or Board
of Commissioners, as the case may be, shall hold a hearing on the appeal or
application within 30 days of the submittal of a completed appeal or
application.
      (2)   Subject to division (E)(3) below, the hearing shall be open to the
public and all persons interested in the outcome of the appeal or application
shall be given an opportunity to present evidence and arguments. All persons
presenting evidence or arguments shall be sworn in by the Chairperson prior to
the presentation of any evidence or arguments.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment or Board of Commissioners may place
reasonable and equitable limitations on the presentation of evidence and
arguments and the cross-examination of witnesses so that the matter at issue
may be heard and decided without undue delay.
      (4)   Boards shall follow quasi-judicial procedures in determining
appeals of administrative decisions, special use permits, certificates of
appropriateness, variances, or any other quasi-judicial decision.
      (5)   The required application fee and all supporting materials must be
received by the UDO Administrator before an application is considered complete
and a hearing scheduled.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. The UDO Administrator shall give notice of any
hearing required by division (E) above as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant to this
section shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal, application or
request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the
subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners
of all parcels of land abutting the parcel that is the subject of the hearing;
and to any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by this Unified
Development Ordinance. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the town
must rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to
mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but
not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within the same time
period, the town shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the
site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway
right-of-way.
         (b)   The Board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been
convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a
given date and a quorum of the board is not then present, the hearing shall be
continued until the next regular board meeting without further advertisement.
      (2)   In the case of special use permits, notice shall be given to other
potentially interested persons by publishing a notice in a newspaper having
general circulation in the area one time not less than ten days nor more than
25 days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   The notice required by this section shall state the date, time and
place of the hearing, reasonably identify the lot that is the subject of the
application or appeal, and give a brief description of the action requested or
proposed.
   (C)   Administrative materials. The UDO Administrator shall transmit to the
Board all applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the matter
being considered. The administrative materials may be distributed to the
members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are
distributed to the Board, a copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant
and to the landowner if that person is not the appellant or applicant. The
administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing record. The
administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic form.
Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be made
before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be made by
the Board at the hearing.
   (D)   Evidence/presentation of evidence. The applicant, the town, and any
person who would have standing to appeal the decision as defined in
Appendix A shall have the right to participate as a party at the evidentiary
hearing. Other witnesses may present competent, material, and substantial
evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the Board. Objections regarding
jurisdictional and evidentiary hearing issues, including but not limited to,
the timeliness of an appeal or the standing of a party, may be made to the
Board. The Board Chair shall rule on any objections and the Chair's ruling may
be appealed to the full Board. These rulings are also subject to judicial
review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Objections based on jurisdictional issues
may be raised for the first time on judicial review.
   (E)   Appearance of official; new issues. The official who made the decision
or the person currently occupying that position if the decision maker is no
longer employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing as a
witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters stated in
a notice of appeal. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced by the
presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board shall
continue the hearing.
   (F)   Oaths. All persons who intend to present evidence to the decision-
making board, rather than arguments only, shall be sworn in. The Chairperson of
the Board or any member acting as Chairperson and the Clerk to the Board are
authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any matter coming before the
Board. Any person who, while under oath during a proceeding before the Board
determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully swears falsely is guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor (refer to §
91.14).
   (G)   Subpoenas. The decision-making board making a quasi-judicial decision
under this chapter, through the Chairperson or, in the Chairperson's absence,
anyone acting as the Chairperson may subpoena witnesses and compel the
production of evidence. To request issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the
town, or any person with standing as defined under Appendix A may make a
written request to the Chairperson explaining why it is necessary for certain
witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The Chairperson shall issue requested
subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope,
and not oppressive. The Chairperson shall rule on any motion to quash or modify
a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the Chairperson may be
immediately appealed to the full decision-making board. If a person fails or
refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this division, the decision-
making board or the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the General Court
of Justice for an order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed, and the court
shall have jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper
parties.
   (H)   Modification of application at hearing.
      (1)   In response to questions or comments by persons appearing at the
hearing or to suggestions or recommendations by the Board of Adjustment, the
applicant may agree to modify his or her application, including the plans and
specifications submitted.
      (2)   Unless such modifications are so substantial or extensive that the
decision-making board cannot reasonably be expected to perceive the nature and
impact of the proposed changes without revised plans before it, the decision-
making board may approve the application with the stipulation that the permit
will not be issued until plans reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted
to the UDO Administrator.
   (I)   Record.
      (1)   A record shall be made of all hearings required by §
91.55(A) and such recordings shall be kept as provided by state law. Minutes
shall also be kept of all such proceedings. A transcript may be made, but is
not required.
      (2)   Whenever practicable, all documentary evidence, including any
exhibits, presented at a hearing as well as all other types of physical
evidence shall be made a part of the record of the proceedings and shall be
kept by the town in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1402.
   (J)   Appeals in nature of certiorari. When hearing an appeal pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-947 or any other appeal in the nature of certiorari, the hearing
shall be based on the record and the scope of review shall be as provided in
G.S. § 160D-1402(j).
   (K)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this division, vacant positions on
the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter shall not be considered members of the Board for calculation of the
requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take the
place of such members.
   (L)   Decision. The Board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. When hearing an appeal, the Board may
reverse or affirm (wholly or partly) or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent material
and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision shall be
reduced to writing and reflect the Board's determination of contested facts and
their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the Board and
signed by the Chairperson or other duly authorized member of the Board. A
quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the
Clerk to the Board or such other office or official as this Unified Development
Ordinance specifies. The decision of the Board shall be delivered by personal
delivery, electronic mail or by first-class mail to the applicant, landowner
and to any person who has submitted a written request for a copy, prior to the
date the decision becomes effective. The person required to provide notice
shall certify to the town that proper notice has been made and the certificate
shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (M)   Judicial review. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to
review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Appeals shall be filed within the times specified
in G.S. § 160D-1405(d).
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.56 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. This Unified Development Ordinance provides
for a number of uses to be located by right in each general zoning district
subject to the use meeting certain area, height, yard, and off-street parking
and loading requirements. In addition to these uses, this Unified Development
Ordinance allows some uses to be allowed in these districts as a special use
subject to issuance of a special use permit by the Board of Commissioners upon
recommendation of the Planning Board. Board of Commissioners consideration of
special use permits are quasi-judicial decisions. The purpose of having the
uses being special is to ensure that they would be compatible with surrounding
development and in keeping with the purposes of the general zoning district in
which they are located and would meet other criteria as set forth in this
section. All special use permits require some form of a site plan as outlined
in §
91.66(D).
   (B)   Application process/completeness.
      (1)   The deadline for which a special use permit application shall be
filed with the UDO Administrator is 20 calendar days prior to the meeting at
which the application will be heard. Permit application forms shall be provided
by the UDO Administrator. In the course of evaluating the proposed special use,
the Planning Board or Board of Commissioners may request additional information
from the applicant. A request for any additional information may stay any
further consideration of the application by the Planning Board or Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   No application shall be deemed complete unless it contains or is
accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale which complies with the requirements
contained in §
91.66(D) and a fee, in accordance with a fee schedule approved by the Board of
Commissioners for the submittal of special use permit applications.
      (3)   One hard copy of the application, and all attachments and maps, for
a special use permit shall be submitted to the UDO Administrator.
   (C)   Planning Board review and comment.
      (1)   The Planning Board may, in its review, suggest reasonable
conditions to the location, nature and extent of the proposed use and its
relationship to surrounding properties, parking areas, driveways, pedestrian
and vehicular circulation systems, screening and landscaping, timing of
development, and any other conditions the Planning Board may find appropriate.
The conditions may include dedication of any rights-of-way or easements for
streets, water, sewer or other public utilities necessary to serve the proposed
development.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall forward its recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners within 45 days of reviewing the application. If a recommendation
is not made within 45 days, the application shall be forwarded to the Board of
Commissioners without a recommendation from the Planning Board.
      (3)   All comments prepared by the Planning Board shall be submitted by a
Planning Board representative to the Board of Commissioners as testimony at the
public hearing required by this section. This representative of the Planning
Board shall be subject to the same scrutiny as other witnesses. Review of the
special use application by the Planning Board shall not be a quasi-judicial
procedure. The Planning Board shall include in its comments a statement as to
the consistency of the application with the town's currently adopted
Comprehensive Plan. Comments of the Planning Board may be considered with other
evidence submitted at the public hearing.
   (D)   Board of Commissioners action.
      (1)   Board of Commissioners' consideration of special use permits are
quasi-judicial decisions approved by a simple majority vote. Quasi-judicial
decisions must be conducted in accordance with §
91.55. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the Board of
Commissioners and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter shall not be considered "members of the Board" for calculation of the
requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take the
place of such members.
      (2)   Once the comments of the Planning Board have been made, or the 45-
day period elapses without a recommendation, the Board of Commissioners shall
hold a public hearing to consider the application at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. A quorum of the Board of Commissioners is required for this
hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall be as specified in §
91.55(B).
      (3)   In approving an application for a special use permit development
approval in accordance with the principles, conditions, safeguards and
procedures specified herein, the Board of Commissioners may impose reasonable
and appropriate conditions and safeguards upon the approval. The petitioner
will have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to any additional
requirements prior to approval or denial by the Board of Commissioners. The
applicant/landowner must consent in writing to all conditions imposed by the
special use permit. Conditions and safeguards imposed under this division shall
not include requirements for which the town does not have authority under
statute to regulate, nor requirements for which the courts have held to be
unenforceable if imposed directly by the town, including without limitation,
taxes, impact fees, building design elements within the scope of G.S. § 160D-
702(b), driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in G.S. § 136-
18(29) and G.S. § 160A-307, or other authorized limitations on the development
or use of land.
      (4)   The applicant has the burden of producing competent, material and
substantial evidence tending to establish the facts and conditions which
division (5) below requires.
      (5)   The Board of Commissioners shall issue a special use permit if it
has evaluated an application through a quasi-judicial process and determined
that:
         (a)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or general
welfare;
         (b)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood;
         (c)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
         (d)   The exterior architectural appeal and functional plan of any
proposed structure will not be so at variance with either the exterior
architectural appeal and functional plan of the structures already constructed
or in the course of construction in the immediate neighborhood or the character
of the applicable district, as to cause a substantial depreciation in the
property values within the neighborhood;
         (e)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, parking or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
         (f)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
         (g)   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to all the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located;
         (h)   Public access shall be provided in accordance with the
recommendations of the town's land use plan and access plan or the present
amount of public access and public parking as exists within the town now. If
any recommendations are found to conflict, the system requiring the greatest
quantity and quality of public access, including parking, shall govern; and
         (i)   The proposed special use shall be consistent with recommendation
and policy statements as described in the adopted land use plan.
      (6)   Conditions and guarantees: prior to the granting of any special
use, the Planning Board may recommend, and the Board of Commissioners may
require, conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location,
construction, maintenance and operation of the special use as is deemed
necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure compliance
with the standards and requirements specified above. In all cases in which
special uses are granted, the Board of Commissioners shall require evidence and
guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions required in
connection therewith are being and will be complied with. The reasons/
justifications for conditions must be stated/tied to §
91.56(D)(5).
      (7)   In the event that a rezoning is sought in conjunction with a
special use permit, such deliberation would be legislative in nature and not
part of the quasi-judicial process.
   (E)   Effect of approval. If an application for a special use permit is
approved by the Board of Commissioners, the owner of the property shall have
the ability to develop the use in accordance with the stipulations contained in
the special use permit, or develop any other use listed as a permitted use for
the general zoning district in which it is located.
   (F)   Binding effect. Any special use permit so authorized shall be binding
to the property included in the permit unless subsequently changed or amended
by the Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   Certificate of occupancy. No certificate of occupancy for a use listed
as a special use shall be issued for any building or land use on a piece of
property which has received a special use permit for the particular use unless
the building is constructed or used, or the land is developed or used, in
conformity with the special use permit approved by the Board of Commissioners.
In the event that only a segment of a proposed development has been approved,
the certificate of occupancy shall be issued only for that portion of the
development constructed or used as approved.
   (H)   Change in special use permit. An application to materially change a
special use permit once it has been issued must first be submitted, reviewed
and approved in accordance with divisions (C) and (D) above, including payment
of a fee in accordance with the fee schedule approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (I)   Implementation of special use permit. A special use permit, after
approval by the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners shall expire six
months after the approval date if work has not commenced or in the case of a
change of occupancy the business has not opened; however, it may be, on
request, continued in effect for a period not to exceed six months by the UDO
Administrator. No further extension shall be added except on approval of the
Board of Commissioners. If such use or business is discontinued for a period of
12 months, the special use permit shall expire. Any expiration as noted or any
violation of the conditions stated on the permit shall be considered unlawful
and the applicant will be required to submit a new special use application to
the appropriate agencies for consideration and the previously approved special
use permit shall become null and void.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.57 REHEARINGS.
   When an application involving a quasi- judicial procedure/petition is denied
by the Board of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment, reapplication involving
the same property, or portions of the same property, may not be submitted
unless the petitioner can demonstrate a substantial change in the proposed use,
conditions governing the use of the property, or conditions surrounding the
property itself.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.58—91.59 RESERVED.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
§ 91.60 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish an orderly process to
develop land within the town in accordance with the legislative authority
granted though G.S. Chapter 160D. It is also the intent of this subchapter to
provide a clear and comprehensible development approval process that is fair
and equitable to all interests including the petitioners, affected neighbors,
town staff, related agencies, the Planning Board and the Board of
Commissioners. Approved plans shall be the guiding documents for final approval
and permitting.
   (B)   The development review process applies to all development actions
within the town except for existing individual lots for single-family detached
residential and two-family residential (duplex) development. The provisions of
this subchapter shall be applicable for development approvals including all
minor and major subdivisions and minor and major site plans. The UDO
Administrator may waive the required development approval process only in the
following cases when he or she determines that the submission of a development
plan in accordance with this subchapter would serve no useful purpose:
      (1)   Accessory structures;
      (2)   Any enlargement of a principal building by less than 20% of its
existing size provided such enlargement will not result in parking or
landscaping improvements; and
      (3)   A change in principal use where such change would not result in a
change in lot coverage, parking or other site characteristics.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.1; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.61 ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Development approvals. To the extent consistent with the scope of
regulatory authority granted by G.S. Chapter 160D, no person shall commence or
proceed with development without first securing any required development
approval from the Town of Carolina Shores. A development approval shall be in
writing and may contain a provision that the development shall comply with all
applicable state and local laws. The town may issue development approvals in
print or electronic form. Any development approval issued exclusively in
electronic form shall be protected from further editing once issued.
Applications for development approvals may be made by the landowner, a lessee
or person holding an option or contract to purchase or lease land, or an
authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder may also apply for
development approval for such development as is authorized by the easement.
   (B)   Determinations and notice of determinations. The UDO Administrator or
his or her designee is designated as the staff member charged with making
determinations under this Unified Development Ordinance. The UDO Administrator
shall give written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different
from the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner. It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the determination from the date a sign
providing notice that a determination has been made is prominently posted on
the property that is the subject of the determination, providing the sign
remains on the property for at least ten days. The sign shall contain the words
"Zoning Decision" or "Subdivision Decision" or similar language for other
determinations in letters at least six inches high and shall identify the means
to contact an official for information about the determination. Posting of
signs is not the only form of constructive notice. Any such posting shall be
the responsibility of the landowner, applicant, or person who sought the
determination. Verification of the posting shall be provided to the staff
member responsible for the determination. Absent an ordinance provision to the
contrary, posting of signs shall not be required.
   (C)   Duration of development approval. A development approval issued
pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year after the date of issuance if
the work authorized by the development approval has not been substantially
commenced. If after commencement, the work or activity is discontinued for a
period of 12 months after commencement, the development approval shall
immediately expire. The time periods set out in this section shall be tolled
during the pendency of any appeal. No work or activity authorized by any
development approval that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new
development approval has been secured. Nothing in this section shall be deemed
to limit any vested rights secured under §
91.52.
   (D)   Changes. After a development approval has been issued, no deviations
from the terms of the application or the development approval shall be made
until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been obtained.
Minor modifications to development approvals can be exempted or
administratively approved. The town shall follow the same development review
and approval process required for issuance of the development approval in the
review and approval of any major modification of that approval.
   (E)   Inspections. The UDO Administrator may inspect work undertaken
pursuant to a development approval to assure that the work is being done in
accordance with applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the
approval. In exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises
within the jurisdiction of the town at all reasonable hours for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
   (F)   Revocation of development approvals. In addition to initiation of
enforcement actions under §
91.14, development approvals may be revoked by the town issuing the development
approval by notifying the holder in writing stating the reasons for the
revocation. The town shall follow the same development review and approval
process required for issuance of the development approval, including any
required notice or hearing, in the review and approval of any revocation of
that approval. Development approvals shall be revoked for any substantial
departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal
or failure to comply with the requirements of any applicable Town of Carolina
Shores development regulation or any state law delegated to the town for
enforcement purposes in lieu of the state; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any development approval
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may also be
revoked. The revocation of a development approval by a staff member may be
appealed pursuant to §
91.54(A). If an appeal is filed regarding a development regulation adopted by
the town pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, the provisions of §
91.54(A)(6) regarding stays shall be applicable.
   (G)   Certificate of Occupancy. The Town of Carolina Shores may, upon
completion of work or activity undertaken pursuant to a development approval,
make final inspections and issue a certificate of compliance or occupancy if
staff finds that the completed work complies with all applicable state and
local laws and with the terms of the approval. No building, structure, or use
of land that is subject to a building permit required by Article 11 of G.S.
Chapter 160D shall be occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy or
temporary certificate pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1114 has been issued.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.62 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING AND SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   The applicant shall schedule a pre- application meeting with the UDO
Administrator to review a sketch plan of the proposed development, including
minor and major subdivisions and minor and major site plans. The sketch plan
shall meet the requirements of division (C) below. The UDO Administrator will
advise the applicant of all applicable town regulations and policies, suggest
development alternatives, application procedures and fees (see §
91.34). The pre-application meeting is a non-binding and informal review of a
development proposal intended to provide information to the applicant on the
procedures and policies of the town and does not confer upon the applicant any
development rights. The UDO Administrator may submit a sketch plan to other
departments or agencies for input and recommendations. Within 15 days of
receipt of the sketch plan, the UDO Administrator shall forward all appropriate
comments to the applicant. This timeframe may be extended if comments are
requested from other agencies.
   (B)   The applicant is encouraged to incorporate the recommendations of the
UDO Administrator or authorized staff reviewer into the development plan before
submittal. The sketch plan is only a courtesy intended to inform the applicant
of the approval criteria prior to submittal of the development plan;
furthermore, sketch plan review does not constitute approval of the development
plan and may not be substituted for any required approvals.
   (C)   Three copies of the sketch plan, drawn to scale, shall be submitted,
including the following:
      (1)   A scale, preferably the same scale as required for development plan
submittal;
      (2)   Property boundaries and total acreage;
      (3)   Major topographical and physical features such as creeks,
buildings, streets and the like;
      (4)   Proposed streets, buildings and/or lot arrangements, including
proposed lot sizes;
      (5)   Existing and proposed land use, drawn to scale, with brief project
description including building sizes, unit sizes, lot sizes, open space,
amenities and the like;
      (6)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and persons (firm)
preparing the development plan;
      (7)   Adjacent street names, numbers and right-of-way widths;
      (8)   Zoning district classification of site and surrounding properties,
including those across streets; and
      (9)   The boundaries of any proposed phasing.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.63 ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL - MINOR SITE PLAN OR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Administrative development approval.
      Administrative approval includes:
      (1)   Minor site plans. Includes the following:
         (a)   Buildings or additions with an aggregate enclosed square footage
of less than 20,000 square feet;
         (b)   Buildings or additions involving land disturbance of less than
one acre;
         (c)   Multi-family development involving less than ten dwelling units;
         (d)   Parking lot expansions which comply with this Unified
Development Ordinance with no increase in enclosed floor area;
         (e)   Revision to landscaping, signage or lighting which comply with
the requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance;
         (f)   Accessory uses which comply with the requirements of this
Unified Development Ordinance; and
         (g)   Site plans which do not require a variance or modification of
the requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance, and otherwise comply
with this UDO.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions. Includes all subdivisions that do not involve a
public street dedication, public easement dedication, dedication of floodplain
and open space, or other property dedication; or a subdivision containing ten
lots or less.
      (3)   Engineering drawings. Engineering drawings; and
      (4)   Final plats. Final plats.
      (5)   Note: A sketch plan and/or pre-application meeting is not required
for a final plat submittal.
         Administrative Approval Flowchart
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1878.png]
      Note: A certificate of occupancy cannot be issued, nor a lot conveyed
without final plat approval and recordation.
   (B)    Development approval application/zoning verification. A development
approval application shall be submitted and zoning verified by the UDO
Administrator. If the zoning is in agreement, the applicant may proceed with
submittal of site plan, plats or drawings. If the proposed development is not
zoning compliant, the applicant must request a rezoning (see §
91.50) or a variance (see §
91.54(B)) before proceeding with site plan, plat or drawing submittal.
   (C)   Minor site plan, minor subdivision plat or drawings submitted for
review. A plan of the proposed development shall be submitted in accordance
with §§
91.65 through
91.67, and shall be accompanied by the completed application and payment of a
fee as adopted by the Board of Commissioners (see §
91.34).
   (D)   Staff review. The UDO Administrator may circulate the plan to relevant
governmental agencies and officials. The reviewing government agencies and
officials may include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
      (1)   UDO Administrator;
      (2)   Town Administrator;
      (3)   Police Department;
      (4)   Town Engineer or consulting engineer;
      (5)   Town Attorney;
      (6)   Other town representatives appointed by the Town Administrator;
      (7)   Utilities providers;
      (8)   Brunswick County Health Department;
      (9)   Brunswick County Board of Education;
      (10)   Cape Fear Area Rural Planning Organization;
      (11)   State Department of Transportation;
      (12)   State Department of Environment and Natural Resources;
      (13)   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; and
      (14)   Calabash Fire Department.
   (E)   Approval. If the site plan, engineering drawings or final plat is
found to meet all of the applicable regulations of this Unified Development
Ordinance, then the UDO Administrator shall issue a development approval for
site plans or approve final subdivision plats.
   (F)   Appeal of administrative denial. Administrative denial of an
application for development approval may be appealed by the applicant to the
Planning Board within 30 days following written notification of denial by the
UDO Administrator.
   (G)   Certificate of zoning compliance.
      (1)   No land shall be used or occupied and no building hereafter
constructed, structurally altered, erected or moved, shall be used, or its use
changed until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the
UDO Administrator stating that the building or the proposed use thereof
complies with the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance.
      (2)   A certificate of zoning compliance, either for the whole or a part
of a building, shall be applied for prior to the application for a building
permit and shall be issued together with the building permit.
      (3)   Application for certificate of zoning compliance: each application
for a preliminary certificate of zoning compliance shall be accompanied by a
site plan (if not already submitted in accordance with division (C) above) in
duplicate, drawn to scale, one copy of which shall be returned to the owner
upon approval. The plan shall show the following:
         (a)   The shape and dimensions of the lot on which the proposed
building or use is to be erected or constructed;
         (b)   The location of the lot with respect to adjacent rights-of-way;
         (c)   The shape, dimensions and location of all buildings, existing
and proposed, on the lot;
         (d)   The nature of the proposed use of the building or land,
including the extent and location of the use on the lot;
         (e)   The location and dimensions of off-street parking and the means
of ingress and egress to the space; and
         (f)   Any other information which the UDO Administrator may deem
necessary for consideration in enforcing the provisions of this Unified
Development Ordinance. The UDO Administrator may waive any of the above
requirements which may not be applicable or otherwise deemed necessary by the
UDO Administrator.
   (H)   Building permit required.
      (1)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to,
demolished or structurally altered without a building permit issued by the
Building Inspector and a zoning permit issued by the UDO Administrator. No
building permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector except in conformity
with the provisions of the State Building Code and this Unified Development
Ordinance unless he or she receives a written order from the Board of
Adjustment in the form of a variance to this Unified Development Ordinance as
provided for by this Unified Development Ordinance.
      (2)   Application for building permit: all applications for building
permits shall be accompanied by plans, including a survey not more than six
months old, as specified by the State Building Code. The application shall
include other information as lawfully may be required by the Building
Inspector, including existing or proposed building or alteration; existing or
proposed uses of the building and land; the number of families, dwelling units
or rental units the building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on
the lot; floodplain development permit; and any other matters as may be
necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of
this Unified Development Ordinance. A minimum of two copies of the plans shall
be required. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Building Inspector, after he or she shall have marked the copy either as
approved or disapproved and attested to same by his or her signature on the
copy. One copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the
Building Inspector.
   (I)   Inspections and certificates of occupancy.
      (1)   No new building, or part thereof, shall be occupied, and no
addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no
existing building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change
of use shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Building Inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for subsequent to or
concurrent with the application for a certificate of zoning compliance and
shall be issued within five business days after the erection or structural
alteration of such building or part shall have been completed in conformity
with the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance. A temporary
certificate of occupancy for a portion of a structure may be issued for a
portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final
completion and occupancy of the entire building or for other temporary uses. A
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a
building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this Unified
Development Ordinance. If the certificate of occupancy is denied, the Building
Inspector shall state in writing the reasons for refusal and the applicant
shall be notified of the refusal. A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file in the office of the Building Inspector for a period of time in accordance
with the State Department of Cultural Resources requirements (G.S. § 132-8) and
copies shall be furnished on request to any persons having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
      (3)   For all developments, excluding single-family residential uses,
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the Building Inspector,
a final zoning inspection shall be conducted to ensure that the approved plan
has been followed and all required improvements have been installed to town
standards. The Board of Commissioners must have accepted all publicly dedicated
improvements contingent upon the recordation of the final plat or provision of
performance guarantees approved by the Board of Commissioners as specified in §
91.67(E)(4).
      (4)   For minor site plans and minor subdivision final plats, an as-built
survey and as-built construction drawings shall be submitted to the UDO
Administrator by the developer upon completion of the building foundation to
ensure that setbacks and building orientation match the approved site plan. If
the survey shows that the placement of the building is incorrect, then the UDO
Administrator shall issue a stop-work order and all construction shall be
halted until the problem is remedied.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.64 PLANNING BOARD REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL (MAJOR SITE PLAN OR
SUBDIVISION).
   (A)   Generally. Planning Board review and development approval applies to
the following:
      (1)   Major site plans. Includes all site plans for projects not meeting
the requirements for a minor site plan; and
      (2)   Major subdivisions. Includes all subdivisions not meeting the
requirements for a minor subdivision.
      Planning Board Approval Flowchart
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1880.png]
       Note: A certificate of occupancy cannot be issued, nor a lot conveyed
without final plat approval and recordation.
   (B)   Development approval application/zoning verification. A development
approval application shall be submitted and zoning verified by the UDO
Administrator. If the zoning is in agreement, the applicant may proceed with
submittal of site plan, plats or drawings. If the proposed development is not
zoning compliant, the applicant must request a rezoning (see §
91.50) or a variance (see §
91.54(B)) before proceeding with site plan, plat or drawing submittal.
   (C)   Major site plan, major subdivision plat or drawings submitted for
review. All major site plans and major subdivision preliminary plats shall be
submitted in accordance with §§
91.66 and
91.67, and shall be accompanied by the completed application and payment of a
fee as adopted by the Board of Commissioners (see §
91.34).
   (D)   Staff review. The UDO Administrator may require that the plan be
circulated to relevant governmental agencies and officials for comments and
recommendations. The reviewing agencies and officials may include, but not
necessarily be limited to, those listed in § 91.63(D).
   (E)   Review process.
      (1)   Following a complete technical review, the UDO Administrator shall
schedule the application for review by the Planning Board.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall have up to 30 days from the date of
referral by the UDO Administrator to recommend approval, recommend approval
with conditions or recommend denial of the request to the Board of
Commissioners.
      (3)   The Planning Board, via the UDO Administrator, shall forward their
recommended action to the Board of Commissioners for review and action as
appropriate by the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Approval. All required local, state and/or federal permits must be
obtained prior to authorization to construct, but shall not be required to
obtain plan approval pursuant to this section.
   (G)   Reapplication. Following denial by the Board of Commissioners, the
applicant may file a new application and associated fee after waiting one year
from the date of denial. Such application shall be considered to be filed de
novo by the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.4; Am. Ord. 15-2, passed 3-5-2015; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.65 ENGINEERING DRAWING REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability and process. The engineering drawings for development
approvals shall be submitted in accordance with this section except where
specifically noted. Upon determination by the UDO Administrator that an
application is complete (including a town tree removal permit, as specified in
§§
91.140 through
91.150), the engineering drawings shall follow the administrative approval
process outlined in §
91.63. Engineering drawings shall constitute the complete submittal
requirements for minor site plan or minor subdivision development approvals
prior to the issuance of a zoning permit or final plat approval.
   (B)   Submittal requirements. Engineering drawings shall be drawn to the
specifications in §
91.66(D). The types of plans to be included in a set of engineering drawings
are as follows:
      (1)   Site plan or preliminary plat;
      (2)   Existing conditions;
      (3)   Grading plan;
      (4)   Soil and erosion control plan;
      (5)   Landscaping plan (including a town tree removal permit, if
applicable, in accordance with §§
91.140 through
91.150);
      (6)   Lighting plan;
      (7)   Street details;
      (8)   Infrastructure details; and
      (9)   Stormwater control plan.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.5; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.66 SITE PLAN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting and sketch plan. The applicant shall schedule
a pre-application meeting with the UDO Administrator to review a sketch plan of
the proposed site plan. The UDO Administrator will determine if the plan
constitutes a minor or major site plan, in accordance with the definitions in
Appendix A, and advise the applicant of all applicable town regulations and
policies, applications procedures and fees.
   (B)   Minor site plans. Minor site plans follow the administrative
development approval process and are not subject to Planning Board review.
Minor site plans shall be submitted with a full set of engineering drawings.
Engineering drawing approval is required prior to the issuance of a zoning
permit. Refer to §
91.65, Engineering Drawing Requirements.
 
   (C)   Major site plans. Major site plans follow the Planning Board
development approval process. The major site plan shall be reviewed by the UDO
Administrator for completeness, compliance with this Unified Development
Ordinance, and soundness of design. The plan shall then be reviewed for
recommendation and approval by the Planning Board. Following Planning Board
approval, engineering drawings may be submitted and reviewed in accordance with
§
91.65. Engineering drawing approval is required prior to the issuance of a
zoning permit.
   (D)   Site plan requirements.
      (1)   Information to be shown on site plan. The site plan shall be
prepared by a professional engineer, registered land surveyor or architect and
shall be drawn to scale of not less than one inch equals 30 feet. The site plan
shall be based on the latest tax map information and shall be of a size as
required by each individual site plan. The site plan shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   A key map of the site with reference to surrounding areas and
existing street locations;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner and site plan applicant,
together with the names of the owners of all contiguous land and of property
directly across the street as shown by the most recent tax records;
         (c)   Lot line dimensions;
         (d)   Location of all structures, streets, entrances and exits on the
site and on contiguous property directly across the street;
         (e)   Location of all existing and proposed structures, including
their outside dimensions and elevations;
         (f)   Building setback, side line and rear yard distances;
         (g)    Location of flood zones;
         (h)   All existing physical features, including watercourses, existing
trees greater than eight inches in diameter measured four and one-half feet
above ground level, and significant soil conditions;
         (i)   Topography showing existing and proposed contours at two-foot
intervals. All reference benchmarks shall be clearly designated;
         (j)   Parking, loading and unloading areas shall be indicated with
dimensions, traffic patterns, access aisles and curb radii per the requirements
of §§
91.120 through
91.129;
         (k)   Improvements such as roads, curbs, bumpers and sidewalks shall
be indicated with cross-sections, design details and dimensions;
         (l)   Location and design of existing and proposed stormwater systems,
sanitary waste disposal systems, water mains and appurtenances, and method of
refuse disposal and storage;
         (m)   Landscaping and buffering plan showing what will remain and what
will be planted, indicating names of plants, trees and dimensions, approximate
time of planting, and maintenance plans per the requirements of §§
91.140 through
91.150;
         (n)   Lighting plan indicating type of standards, location, radius of
light and intensity in footcandles per the requirements of §§
91.170 through
91.177;
         (o)   Location, dimensions and details of signs per the requirements
of §§
91.190 through
91.201;
         (p)   North arrow; and
         (q)   Location of all 404 wetland areas.
      (2)   Performance standards. In reviewing any site plan, the Planning
Board shall consider:
         (a)   Pedestrian and vehicular traffic movement within and adjacent to
the site with particular emphasis on the provision and layout of parking areas,
off-street loading and unloading, movement of people, goods and vehicles from
access roads, within the site, between buildings, and between buildings and
vehicles. The Planning Board shall ensure that all parking spaces comply with
§§
91.120 through
91.129. Access to the site from adjacent roads shall be designed so as to
interfere as little as possible with traffic flow on these roads and to permit
vehicles a rapid and safe ingress and egress to the site;
         (b)   The design and layout of buildings and parking areas shall be
reviewed so as to provide an aesthetically pleasing design and efficient
arrangement. Particular attention shall be given to safety and fire protection,
impact of surrounding development, and contiguous and adjacent buildings and
lands;
         (c)   Adequate lighting, based upon the standards set forth in §§
91.170 through
91.177, shall be provided to ensure safe movement of persons and vehicles and
for security purposes. Lighting standards shall be a type approved by the
Planning Board;
         (d)   Buffering shall be located around the perimeter of the site to
minimize headlights of vehicles, noise, light from structures, the movement of
people and vehicles, and to shield activities from adjacent properties in
accordance with §§
91.140 through
91.150;
         (e)   Landscaping shall be provided as part of the overall site design
and integrated into building arrangements, topography, parking and buffering
requirements in accordance with §§
91.140 through
91.150;
         (f)   Signs shall be designed so as to be aesthetically pleasing,
harmonious with other signs on the site, and located so as to achieve their
purpose without constituting hazards to vehicles and pedestrians (refer to §§
91.190 through
91.201);
         (g)   Storm drainage, sanitary waste disposal, water supply and
garbage disposal shall be reviewed for compliance with applicable federal,
state and local requirements. Particular emphasis shall be given to the
adequacy of existing systems, and the need for improvements, both on-site and
off-site, to adequately carry run-off and sewage, and to maintain an adequate
supply of water at sufficient pressure; and
         (h)   Environmental elements relating to soil erosion, preservation of
trees, protection of watercourses, and resources, noise, topography, soil and
animal life shall be reviewed, and the design of the plan shall minimize any
adverse impact on these elements.
   (E)   Certificate of zoning compliance/building permit. An application for a
certificate of zoning compliance may be requested in advance of or concurrently
with an application for a building permit in accordance with §§
91.63(G) and (H).
   (F)   Inspections and certificates of occupancy.
      (1)   No new building, or part thereof, shall be occupied, and no
addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no
existing building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change
of use shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Building Inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for subsequent to or
concurrent with the application for a certificate of zoning compliance and
shall be issued within five business days after the erection or structural
alteration of such building or part shall have been completed in conformity
with the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance. A temporary
certificate of occupancy for a portion of a structure may be issued for a
portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final
completion and occupancy of the entire building or for other temporary uses. A
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a
building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this Unified
Development Ordinance. If the certificate of occupancy is denied, the Building
Inspector shall state in writing the reasons for refusal and the applicant
shall be notified of the refusal. A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file in the office of the Building Inspector for a period of time in accordance
with the State Department of Cultural Resources requirements (G.S. § 132-8) and
copies shall be furnished on request to any persons having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
      (3)   For all developments, excluding single-family residential uses,
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the Building Inspector,
a final zoning inspection shall be conducted to ensure that the approved plan
has been followed and all required improvements have been installed to town
standards. The Board of Commissioners must have accepted all publicly dedicated
improvements contingent upon the recordation of the final plat or provision of
performance guarantees approved by the Board of Commissioners as specified in §
91.67(E)(4).
      (4)   For major sites plan development approvals, an as-built survey and
as-built construction drawings shall be submitted to the UDO Administrator by
the developer upon completion of the building foundation to ensure that
setbacks and building orientation match the approved site plan. If the survey
shows that the placement of the building is incorrect, then the UDO
Administrator shall issue a stop-work order and all construction shall be
halted until the problem is remedied.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.6; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.67 SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides for the orderly growth and development
of the Town of Carolina Shores, for the coordination of transportation networks
and utilities within proposed subdivisions with existing or planned streets and
highways and with other public facilities; and for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner that will avoid congestion and overcrowding
and will create conditions that substantially promote public health, safety,
and general welfare.
   (B)   Subdivision exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall be applicable to all subdivisions except those
which are exempt in accordance with §
91.04(B)(3). The Planning Board may authorize exceptions for subdivisions from
any portion of this Unified Development Ordinance when, in its opinion, undue
hardship may result from their strict compliance. In granting an exception, the
Planning Board shall hold a quasi-judicial public hearing and make the findings
required herein, taking into account the nature of the proposed subdivision,
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or
work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No relief shall be granted
unless it is found:
         (a)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting
said property such that the strict application of the provisions of this
Unified Development Ordinance would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use
of his or her land;
         (b)   That the relief is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the petitioner;
         (c)   That the circumstances giving rise to the need for the relief
are peculiar to the subdivision and are not generally characteristic of other
subdivisions in the jurisdiction of this Unified Development Ordinance; and
         (d)   That the granting of the relief will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare or injurious to other property in the area in
which said property is situated.
      (2)   Every decision of the Planning Board pertaining to the granting of
subdivision exceptions shall be subject to review by the Superior Court
Division of the General Courts of Justice of the State of North Carolina by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any petition for review by the
Superior Court shall be duly verified and filed with the Clerk of Superior
Court within 30 days after the decision of the Planning Board is filed in the
office of the UDO Administrator, or after a written copy thereof is delivered
to every aggrieved party who has filed a written request for such copy with the
UDO Administrator at the time of the Planning Board's hearing of the case,
whichever is later.
   (C)   Pre-application meeting and sketch plan. The applicant shall schedule
a pre-application meeting with the UDO Administrator to review a sketch plan of
the proposed subdivision in accordance with §
91.62. The UDO Administrator will determine if the subdivision constitutes a
major or minor subdivision, in accordance with the definitions in Appendix A,
and advise the applicant of all applicable town regulations and policies,
application procedures and fees.
   (D)   Review procedure for minor subdivisions.
      (1)   The developer shall submit a sketch development plan, as specified
in §
91.62, to the UDO Administrator. At this stage, the UDO Administrator and the
developer shall informally review the proposal.
      (2)   After this initial review has been completed, the subdivider or his
or her authorized representative shall prepare a final plat as specified in §
91.213 and submit it to the UDO Administrator. At the time of submission, the
subdivider shall pay to the town an application fee as established by the Board
of Commissioners in accordance with §
91.34. Refer to §§
91.210 through
91.228 for plat requirements.
      (3)   The UDO Administrator shall approve or disapprove the final plat.
If the subdivider disagrees with the decision of the UDO Administrator, the
subdivider may appeal to the Planning Board at their next regular meeting.
   (E)   Review procedure for major subdivisions.
      (1)   Preliminary plat.
         (a)   Following a complete technical review and the payment of
requisite fees as established by the Board of Commissioners, the UDO
Administrator shall schedule the preliminary plat for review by the Planning
Board.
         (b)   The Planning Board shall have up to 30 days from the date of
referral by the UDO Administrator to recommend approval, recommend approval
with conditions or recommend denial of the request to the Board of
Commissioners.
         (c)   The Planning Board, via the UDO Administrator, shall forward
their recommended action to the Board of Commissioners for review and action as
appropriate by the Board of Commissioners.
         (d)   All required local, state and/or federal permits must be
obtained prior to authorization to construct, but shall not be required to
obtain preliminary plat approval pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Final plat.
         (a)   Within 24 months after approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider shall submit a final plat showing that the subdivision has been
complete in conformity to the approved preliminary plat. The final plat may
include all or only a portion of the subdivision as proposed and approved on
the preliminary subdivision plat, provided that all required improvements have
been installed as called for in the approved preliminary plat or a surety bond
or similar financial instrument has been approved by the Board of
Commissioners, in accordance with this chapter.
         (b)   Final plat process.
            1.   Following a complete technical review and the payment of
requisite fees as established by the Board of Commissioners, the UDO
Administrator shall schedule the final plat for review by the Planning Board.
            2.   The Planning Board shall have up to 30 days from the date of
referral by the UDO Administrator to recommend approval, recommend approval
with modifications or recommend denial of the request to the Board of
Commissioners. If the final plat substantially conforms to the approved
preliminary plat, the plat should be approved.
            3.   The Planning Board, via the UDO Administrator, shall forward
their recommended action to the Board of Commissioners for review and action as
appropriate by the Board of Commissioners.
            4.   The Board of Commissioners shall review the final plat and if
it substantially conforms to the preliminary plat shall approve the final plat.
The Board of Commissioners shall also, as part of the final plat approval
process, accept any public improvements or sureties thereof as outlined in this
chapter.
            5.   Only after the final plat has been approved and recorded in
the Brunswick County Register of Deeds office shall any lots be transferred or
conveyed.
      (3)   Appeals of decisions on subdivision plats. A decision to approve or
deny a preliminary or final subdivision plat is administrative, and that
decision shall be subject to review by filing an action in superior court
seeking appropriate declaratory or equitable relief within 30 days from receipt
of the written notice of the decision, which shall be made as provided in §
91.54(A).
      (4)   Performance guarantees. In lieu of requiring the completion,
installation, and dedication of all improvements prior to final plat approval,
the town may enter into an agreement with the subdivider whereby the subdivider
shall agree to complete any remaining required improvements as specified by the
approved preliminary plat for that portion of the subdivision to be shown on
the final plat within a mutually agreed upon specified time period. Once agreed
upon by both parties and the security required herein is provided, the final
plat may be approved by the Board of Commissioners, if all other requirements
of this section are met. The town shall require a certified cost estimate from
a licensed contractor or engineer for the cost of completion of such
improvements.
         (a)   Type.  The subdivider shall provide one of the following
performance guarantees, elected at the subdivider's discretion, in lieu of
installation:
            1.   Surety bond issued by any company authorized to do business in
this state;
            2.   Letter of credit issued by any financial institution licensed
to do business in this state; or
            3.   Other form of guarantee that provides equivalent security to a
surety bond or letter of credit.
         (b)   Duration. The duration of the performance guarantee shall
initially be one year, unless the subdivider determines that the scope of work
for the required improvements necessitates a longer duration. In the case of a
bonded obligation, the completion date shall be set one year from the date the
bond is issued, unless the subdivider determines that the scope of work for the
required improvements necessitates a longer duration.
         (c)   Extension. A developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good-faith
progress toward completion of the required improvements that are secured by the
performance guarantee or any extension. If the improvements are not completed
to the specifications of the town, and the current performance guarantee is
likely to expire prior to completion of the required improvements, the
performance guarantee shall be extended, or a new performance guarantee issued,
for an additional period; provided, however, that the extension shall only be
for a duration necessary to complete the required improvements. If a new
performance guarantee is issued, the amount shall be determined by the
procedure provided in division (3) of this section and shall include the total
cost of all incomplete improvements.
         (d)   Release. The performance guarantee shall be returned or
released, as appropriate, in a timely manner upon the acknowledgment by the
town that the improvements for which the performance guarantee is being
required are complete. The town shall return letters of credit or escrowed
funds upon completion of the required improvements to the specifications of the
town, or upon acceptance of the required improvements, if the required
improvements are subject to town acceptance. When required improvements that
are secured by a bond are completed to the specifications of the town, or are
accepted by the town, if subject to town acceptance, upon request by the
developer, the town shall timely provide written acknowledgment that the
required improvements have been completed.
         (e)   Amount. The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed
125% of the reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time the performance
guarantee is issued. The town may determine the amount of the performance
guarantee or use a cost estimate determined by the developer. The reasonably
estimated cost of completion shall include 100% of the costs for labor and
materials necessary for completion of the required improvements. Where
applicable, the costs shall be based on unit pricing. The additional 25%
allowed under this division includes inflation and all costs of administration
regardless of how such fees or charges are denominated. The amount of any
extension of any performance guarantee shall be determined according to the
procedures for determining the initial guarantee and shall not exceed 125% of
the reasonably estimated cost of completion of the remaining incomplete
improvements still outstanding at the time the extension is obtained.
         (f)   Timing. The town, at its discretion, may require the performance
guarantee to be posted either at the time the plat is recorded or at a time
subsequent to plat recordation.
         (g)   Coverage. The performance guarantee shall only be used for
completion of the required improvements and not for repairs or maintenance
after completion.
         (h)   Legal responsibilities. No person shall have or may claim any
rights under or to any performance guarantee provided pursuant to this section
or in the proceeds of any such performance guarantee other than the following:
            1.   The town to whom such performance guarantee is provided.
            2.   The subdivider at whose request or for whose benefit such
performance guarantee is given.
            3.   The person or entity issuing or providing such performance
guarantee at the request of or for the benefit of the developer.
         (i)   The town may release a portion of any security posted as the
improvements are completed and recommended for approval by the UDO
Administrator. Within 30 days after receiving the UDO Administrator's
recommendation, the Board of Commissioners shall approve or not approve said
improvements. If the Board of Commissioners approves said improvements, then it
shall immediately release any security posted.
         (j)   For subdivisions which are underwritten or constructed with
federal funds and for which the specifications for facilities or improvements
are equal to or of higher standard than those required by the town, the bond-
posting requirement may be waived and the final plat approved prior to
completion of facilities or improvements.
         (k)   Multiple guarantees. The subdivider shall have the option to
post one type of a performance guarantee as provided for in division (a) of
this section, in lieu of multiple bonds, letters of credit, or other equivalent
security, for all development matters related to the same project requiring
performance guarantees. Performance guarantees associated with erosion control
and stormwater control measures are not subject to the provisions of this
section.
   (F)   Procedure for plat recordation.
      (1)   After the effective date of this Unified Development Ordinance, no
subdivision plat of land within the town's jurisdiction shall be filed or
recorded until it has been submitted to and approved by the appropriate
agencies, and until this approval is entered in writing on the face of the plat
by the chairperson or head of that agency. All publicly dedicated improvements
must be accepted by the Board of Commissioners contingent upon final plat
recordation or acceptance of an approved performance bond.
      (2)   A plat shall not be filed or recorded by the County Register of
Deeds of any subdivision located within the town's jurisdiction that has not
been approved in accordance with this Unified Development Ordinance, nor shall
the Clerk of Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording would be in conflict with the requirements of this Unified
Development Ordinance.
   (G)   Transfer of lots in an unapproved subdivision.
      (1)   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the
town, thereafter subdivides his land in violation of applicable town ordinances
the regulation or transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or
any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has
been properly approved under applicable town ordinances such regulation and
recorded in the office of the Brunswick County Register of Deeds, shall be
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. The town
may bring an action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer,
conveyance, or sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings,
issue an injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply with the
subdivision ordinance. Building permits required pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1108
may be denied for lots that have been illegally subdivided. In addition to
other remedies, the town may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to
prevent the unlawful subdivision of land, to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or its
agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease by reference to an approved
preliminary plat for which a final plat has not yet been properly approved
under the subdivision regulation or recorded with the Brunswick County Register
of Deeds, provided the contract does all of the following:
         (a)   Incorporates as an attachment a copy of the preliminary plat
referenced in the contract and obligates the owner to deliver to the buyer a
copy of the recorded plat prior to closing and conveyance.
         (b)   Plainly and conspicuously notifies the prospective buyer or
lessee that a final subdivision plat has not been approved or recorded at the
time of the contract, that no governmental body will incur any obligation to
the prospective buyer or lessee with respect to the approval of the final
subdivision plat,
that changes between the preliminary and final plats are possible, and that the
contract or lease may be terminated without breach by the buyer or lessee if
the final recorded plat differs in any material respect from the preliminary
plat.
         (c)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat does not
differ in any material respect from the plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than five days after the delivery of a copy of the final recorded plat.
         (d)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat differs in
any material respect from the preliminary plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than 15 days after the delivery of the final recorded plat, during
which 15-day period the buyer or lessee may terminate the contract without
breach or any further obligation and may receive a refund of all earnest money
or prepaid purchase price.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or its
agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease land by reference to an
approved preliminary plat for which a final plat has not been properly approved
under the subdivision regulation or recorded with the Brunswick County Register
of Deeds where the buyer or lessee is any person who has contracted to acquire
or lease the land for the purpose of engaging in the business of construction
of residential, commercial, or industrial buildings on the land, or for the
purpose of resale or lease of the land to persons engaged in that kind of
business, provided that no conveyance of that land may occur and no contract to
lease it may become effective until after the final plat has been properly
approved under the subdivision regulation and recorded with the Brunswick
County Register of Deeds.
   (H)   Issuance of permits and conveyance of subdivision lots.
      (1)   Zoning permits and building permits may be issued by the town for
the erection of any building on any lot within a proposed subdivision prior to
the final plat of said subdivision being approved in a manner as prescribed by
this Unified Development Ordinance and recorded at the Register of Deeds
office, provided an improvements permit has been issued by the Brunswick County
Health Department, if required. A certificate of occupancy may not be issued
until the final plat has been approved and recorded.
      (2)   After the effective date of this Unified Development Ordinance, it
shall be illegal for any person being the owner or agent of the owner of any
land located within the territorial jurisdiction of this Unified Development
Ordinance, to subdivide his or her land in violation of this Unified
Development Ordinance or to transfer or sell land by reference to, exhibition
of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat
has been properly approved under the terms of this Unified Development
Ordinance.
      (3)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty. The Board of Commissioners, through
its attorney or other official so designated, may enjoin an illegal
subdivision, transfer or sale of land by action for injunction. Further,
violators of this Unified Development Ordinance shall be subject, upon
conviction, to fine and/or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Civil
penalties may be issued in accordance with §
91.14.
   (I)   Roadway acceptance procedure.
      (1)   At the time of submittal of a preliminary plat with streets
proposed to be dedicated for acceptance by the town as public, the Board of
Commissioners will decide if it will approve the dedication, subject to the
street or streets complying with all requirements for acceptance. The town is
not obligated to accept a street for maintenance.
      (2)   Before a request for acceptance by the town is made, the petitioner
(s) for street dedication must provide the following to the UDO Administrator:
         (a)   Town Engineer's certification that the street(s) have been
properly constructed to town specifications;
         (b)   As-built drawings of all street, drainage and other
improvements;
         (c)   All easement agreements;
         (d)   Lien waiver executed by all providers of materials and services;
and
         (e)   Deed for roadway right-of-way conveyance.
      (3)   If the town agrees to accept the offer of dedication, it will be
obligated to maintain the street. The obligation to maintain the street does
not impose any requirement on the town to immediately make improvements to the
street in question. Necessary improvements to the street in question will be
made by the town as funds are available.
      (4)   The warranty period shall run for a minimum of one year from the
date of acceptance by the Board of Commissioners. Warranty inspections will be
conducted by the Town Engineer at six months and 12 months after acceptance or
at any time that deficiencies are discovered. All repairs will require an
additional one-year warranty.
      (5)   Acceptance of roadway dedication will be provided by adoption of a
resolution of acceptance by the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (J)   School site reservation. If the Board of Commissioners and the
Brunswick County Board of Education have jointly determined the specific
location and size of any school sites to be reserved in accordance with the
town comprehensive plan, staff shall immediately notify the Board of Education
in writing whenever a sketch plan for a subdivision is submitted which includes
all or part of a school site to be reserved. The Board of Education shall
promptly decide whether it still wishes the site to be reserved. If the Board
of Education does wish to reserve the site, the subdivision shall not be
approved without such reservation. The Board of Education shall then have 18
months beginning on the date of final approval of the subdivision within which
to acquire the site by purchase or by initiating condemnation proceedings. If
the Board of Education has not purchased or begun proceedings to condemn the
site within 18 months, the developer may treat the land as freed of the
reservation.
   (K)   Dedication of land for park, recreation and open space. Every
subdivider who proposes a subdivision of land for residential purposes shall
dedicate for public or private use a portion of land or pay a fee in lieu
thereof, in accordance with this section, for public park, greenway, recreation
and open space sites to serve the recreational needs of the residents of the
subdivision or development. The town prefers that ownership and maintenance of
parks, recreation or open space lands be by a private entity, such as a
property owners' association. Dedication of land, or fee in lieu of, must be
approved by the Board of Commissioners prior to approval of the preliminary
plat by the Planning Board.
      (1)   At least one-thirty-fifth of an acre shall be dedicated for each
dwelling unit planned or proposed in the subdivision plat or development.
      (2)   The minimum amount of land which shall be dedicated for a public
park, recreation or open space site shall be no less than two acres in size.
When the area to be provided is less than two acres, the subdivider may be
required to make payment in lieu of the dedication to be used for the
acquisition or development of recreation, park or open space sites which would
serve the needs of the residents of the subdivision.
      (3)   Except as otherwise required by the Board of Commissioners, all
dedications of land shall meet the following criteria.
         (a)   The dedicated land shall form a single parcel of land, except
where the Board of Commissioners determines that two or more parcels would be
in the best interest of the public, given the type and distribution of open
spaces needed to adequately serve the proposed development. In these cases, the
Board of Commissioners may require that the parcels be connected by a dedicated
strip of land at least 30 feet in width.
         (b)   Two-thirds of the dedicated land shall be usable for active
recreation. Furthermore, lakes and other bodies of water may not be included in
computing any of the dedicated land area. Land dedicated only for greenways
need not follow the requirements of this division (J)(3)(b).
         (c)   The shape of the portion of the dedicated land which is deemed
suitable for active recreation shall be sufficiently square or round to be
usable for any or all recreational facilities and activities, such as athletic
fields and tennis courts, when a sufficient amount of land is dedicated to
accommodate the facilities. Land dedicated only for greenways need not follow
the requirements of this division (J)(3)(c).
         (d)   The dedicated land shall be located so as to reasonably serve
the recreation and open space needs of residents of the subdivision.
         (e)   Public access to the dedicated land shall be provided either by
adjoining public street frontage or by a dedicated public easement, at least 30
feet wide, which connects the dedicated land to a public street or right-of-
way. Gradients adjacent to existing and proposed streets shall allow for
reasonable access to the dedicated land. Where the dedicated land is located
adjacent to a street, the developer or subdivider shall remain responsible for
the installation of utilities, sidewalks and other improvements required along
that street segment.
         (f)   Dedicated parks, recreation and open space areas shall have a
sufficient natural or human-made buffer or screen to minimize any negative
impacts on adjacent residents.
      (4)   The payment of fees, in lieu of the dedication of land, may occur
at the request of the subdivider or developer. However, the decision to require
the dedication of land for recreational purposes, or a payment of a fee in
lieu, shall be made by the Board of Commissioners prior to preliminary plat
approval after having received a recommendation from the Planning Board and
having evaluated the proposed dedication and the relationship the dedication
would have with the town's overall recreational needs.
         (a)   The fees in lieu of dedication shall be paid prior to final plat
approval.
         (b)   The amount of the payment shall be the product of:
            1.   The number of acres to be dedicated, as required by this
division (J); and
            2.   The assessed value for property tax purposes of the land being
subdivided, adjusted to reflect its current fair market value at the time the
payment is due to be paid.
         (c)   Procedures for determining the amount of the payment are as
follows.
            1.   An appraisal of the land in the development shall be performed
by a professional land appraiser selected by the developer from an approved
list maintained by the Board of Commissioners. Professional land appraiser
refers to a land appraiser who, in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners,
has the expertise and/or certification to perform an adequate appraisal.
            2.   The appraisal shall not be done prior to submission of the
preliminary plat. The cost of the appraisal shall be borne by the developer.
      (5)   At the time of filing a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
designate thereon the area or areas to be dedicated pursuant to this section.
If the subdivider desires to make a payment in lieu of the dedication of land,
a letter to that effect shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. The Board
of Commissioners reserves the right to approve or disapprove dedication of
parcels for public park, recreation or open space, or payment in lieu of.
      (6)   Where a dedication of land is required, the dedication shall be
shown on the final plat when submitted, and the plat shall be accompanied by an
executed general warranty deed conveying the dedicated land to the town. Where
a payment in lieu of dedication is approved by the Board of Commissioners, the
payment will be made before the final plat is signed and recorded.
      (7)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to sell land
dedicated pursuant to this section. The proceeds of the sale shall be used for
the acquisition and/or development of other recreation, park or open space
sites, or for sidewalk development serving the subdivision or more than one
subdivision in the immediate area.
      (8)   The town encourages neighborhood or property owner associations or
management to construct, operate and maintain private parks and recreation. The
construction, operation or maintenance of the private facilities shall not,
however, diminish or eliminate the responsibility and obligations of the
subdivider under this section.
      (9)   Greenways may be credited against the requirements of this section,
provided that the greenways are part of the town's greenway plan and dedicated
to public use.
      (10)   This chapter may not require a power line to be buried if the line
existed above ground when the development's plat or development plan was
initially approved (even if the power line was subsequently relocated) and the
power line is located outside the parcel of land containing the subdivision or
development plan.
   (L)   Street construction. To provide for the orderly growth and development
of the town, and to coordinate the streets and highways within proposed
subdivisions with existing or planned streets and highways, a subdivider or
developer may be required in lieu of required street construction and as a
condition to plat approval, to provide funds which the town may use for the
construction of roads to serve the occupants, residents, or invitees of the
subdivision or development and these funds may be used for roads which serve
more than one subdivision or development within the area. All funds received by
the town pursuant to this division shall be used only for development of roads,
including design, land acquisition, and construction. The town may undertake
these activities in conjunction with the North Carolina Department of
Transportation under an agreement between the town and the Department of
Transportation. Any formula adopted to determine the amount of funds the
subdivider or developer is to pay in lieu of required street construction shall
be based on the trips generated from the subdivision or development. A
combination of partial payment of such funds and partial dedication of
constructed streets may be required when the Board of Commissioners determines
that such a combination is in the best interests of the public in the area to
be served.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.7; Am. Ord. 15-2, passed 3-5-2015; Am. Ord. 16-1,
passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 17-3, passed 12-8-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-
2020)
§§ 91.68—91.69 RESERVED.
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 91.70 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of G.S. § 160D-703 that zoning
regulation be by districts, the town, as shown on the Zoning Map, is hereby
divided into districts which shall be governed by all of the uniform use and
dimensional requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance. In the creation
of the respective districts, careful consideration is given to the peculiar
suitability of each and every district for the particular regulations applied
thereto, and the necessary, proper and comprehensive groupings and arrangements
of various uses and densities of population in accordance with a well
considered Comprehensive Plan for the physical development of the area.
   (B)   The purposes of establishing the zoning districts are:
      (1)   To implement adopted plans;
      (2)   To promote public health, safety and general welfare;
      (3)   To provide for orderly growth and development;
      (4)   To provide for the efficient use of resources; and
      (5)   To facilitate the adequate provision of services.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.1; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.71 INTERPRETATION.
   Zoning districts have uses specified as permitted by right, special uses and
uses permitted with supplemental regulations. Detailed use tables are provided
in §
91.74 showing the uses allowed in each district. The following describes the
processes of each of the categories that the uses are subject to:
   (A)   Permitted by right. Administrative review and approval subject to
district provisions and other applicable requirements only;
   (B)   Permitted with supplemental regulations. Administrative review and
approval subject to district provisions, other applicable requirements and
supplemental regulations outlined in §§
91.80 through 91.104; and
   (C)   Special uses. Planning Board review and recommendation, Board of
Commissioners review and approval of special use permit subject to district
provisions, other applicable requirements and conditions of approval as
specified in §
91.56. Some special uses may also be subject to supplemental regulations
outlined in §§
91.80 through
91.104.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.2; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.72 PRIMARY ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this Unified Development Ordinance, the town is hereby
divided into the following primary zoning districts.
   (A)   R-15 Residential District. The R-15 Residential District is intended
as a single-family residential area with a low to medium population density.
Certain structures and uses of governmental, educational, religious and
noncommercial recreational natures are either permitted outright or are subject
to special conditions intended to preserve and protect the residential
character of this district.
   (B)   R-12 Residential District. The R-12 Residential District is intended
as a single-family residential area with a low to medium population density.
Certain structures and, uses of governmental, educational, religious and
noncommercial recreational natures are either permitted outright or are subject
to special conditions intended to preserve and protect the residential
character of this district.
   (C)   R-8 Residential District. The R-8 Residential District is established
as a district in which the principal use of land is for single-family, two-
family and multi-family residences. The regulations of this district are
intended to provide areas of the community for those persons desiring residence
and multi-family structures in medium density neighborhoods. The regulations
are intended to discourage any use which because of its character would
interfere with the residential nature of this district.
   (D)   R-6 Residential District. The R-6 Residential District is established
as a district in which the principal use of land is for single-family, two-
family and multi-family residences. The regulations of this district are
intended to provide areas in the community for those persons desiring small
residences and multi-family structures in relatively high density
neighborhoods. The regulations are intended to discourage any use which because
of its character would interfere with the residential nature of this district.
The R-6 District was in effect prior to the date of adoption of this Unified
Development Ordinance and shall continue in effect for those areas following
the date of adoption of this Unified Development Ordinance. It is the intention
of the town that there will be no additional R-6 zoning.
   (E)   MFH I Manufactured Home District I. The MFH I Manufactured Home
District I is established as a district in which the principal use of land is
for double-wide manufactured homes Class “A.”
   (F)   MFH II Manufactured Home District II. The MFH II Manufactured Home
District II is established as a district in which the principal use of land is
for Class “B” manufactured homes.
   (G)   O/I Office and Institutional District. This district is established
primarily for office and institutional uses which cause no offensive noises,
odors, smoke, fumes, excessive traffic or other objectionable conditions. This
district may serve as a buffer between residential and commercial/industrial
districts.
   (H)   NB Neighborhood Business District. The regulations for this district
are designed to permit a concentrated development of permitted facilities which
are normally adjacent to non-federal highways and routinely adjacent to
residential areas.
   (I)   HC Highway Commercial District. The HC Highway Commercial District is
established primarily for those businesses that serve the traveling public,
require large areas for displays of goods, and are not oriented to the
pedestrian shopper.
   (J)   ID Industrial District. The ID Industrial District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for industries which can be
operated in a relatively clean and quiet manner and which will not be obnoxious
to adjacent residential or business districts. The regulations are designed to
prohibit the use of land for heavy industry, which should be properly
segregated, and to prohibit any other use that would substantially interfere
with the development of industrial establishments in the district.
   (K)   CRD Conservation Recreation District. This district is established as
a district intended to preserve Carolina Shores’ essential open space areas, by
protecting/preserving natural resources such as: floodplain areas, existing and
proposed residential areas, recreational resources; and limiting impervious
surfaces, thereby reducing stormwater runoff. Conservation zoning may be
incorporated into surrounding developments. Large lot zoning for single-family
residential development is conditionally allowed as an effective way to
preserve natural and community open space resources.
   (L)   PRD Planned Residential District. A Planned Residential District (PRD)
is planned and developed as an integral unit in a single development phase or
several phases in accord with an initially approved development plan.
   (M)   AD Agricultural District. The purpose of this district is to provide
for areas where the principal use of land is for low density residential and
agricultural
purposes. The regulations of this district are intended to protect the
agricultural sections of the community from an influx of uses likely to render
them undesirable for farms and future residential development.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.73 CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   The large site conditional zoning district (CZD) allows a site to be
developed with a mixture of land uses according to an approved overall site
plan. For example, a large tract may be developed with a mix of single-family
and multi-family housing, with part of the site also devoted to commercial and
office uses. The CZD allows for greater flexibility in dimensional standards
(such as lot sizes and setbacks) upon approval of an overall master plan for
the entire development. The district does not require a rigid separation of
different land uses. Uses are limited to the uses identified in §
91.74 Table of Permitted/ Special Uses. All of the site-specific standards and
conditions, including a site plan, are incorporated into the zoning district
regulations for the CZD. Approval of the site plan will establish all zoning
requirements for the subject property. A large site CZD district shall not be
less than three acres in area. Within the MLK-O overlay district, lots smaller
than three acres in size may apply for CZD zoning.
   (B)   This negotiated approach to a legislative decision allows maximum
flexibility to tailor regulations to a particular site and project. But it also
has great potential for abuse - both in terms of impacts on individual
landowners seeking approval and their neighbors and on the public interests
zoning is supposed to promote. Thus, special restrictions have been placed on
conditional zoning. Conditional Zoning Districts may only occur at the owner's
request and cannot be imposed without the owner's agreement. The individual
conditions and site-specific standards that can be imposed are limited to those
that are needed to bring a project into compliance with town ordinances and
adopted plans and to those addressing the impacts reasonably expected to be
generated by use of the site. The town must assure that all of the factors
defining reasonable spot zoning are fully considered and that the public
hearing record reflects that consideration.
   (C)   Conditional zoning provides important opportunities to carefully
tailor regulations to address the interest of the landowner, the neighbors, and
the public. The town may use conditional zoning when it concludes that a
particular project should be approved but that the standards in the comparable
conventional zoning district(s) are insufficient to protect neighbors or public
interests (perhaps because the conventional zoning allows other uses not
suitable for the site or dimensional standards inadequate to preserve the
neighborhood). Conditional zoning often allows a developer to proceed with a
project in a way that addresses site-specific concerns of neighbors and the
Town of Carolina Shores. The petitioner must consent in writing to all
conditions imposed by the conditional zoning.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.74 TABLE OF PERMITTED/SPECIAL USES.
P - Permitted Use PS - Permitted Use with Supplemental Regulations
S - Special Use   SS - Special Use with Supplemental Regulations
Uses Primary Zoning Districts Supplemental Regulations
                                          PS - Permitted Use with Supplemental
P - Permitted Use                         Regulations
S - Special Use                           SS - Special Use with Supplemental
                                          Regulations
                  Primary Zoning Districts                         Supplemental
Uses              R15 R12 R8  R6  MFH MFH O/I NB HC ID  AD CRD PRD Regulations
                                  I   II
Accessory Uses/                                        
Buildings
Accessory         PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS PS PS  PS PS  PS  §
structures                                                         91.81
Accessory uses    PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS PS PS  PS PS  PS  §
                                                                   91.81
Child care center
(as an accessory
use for a                                     P  P  P
principal
business/
industry)
Dwelling as an    PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS                   §
accessory use                                                      91.81(D )
Fences and walls  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS PS PS  PS PS  PS  §
                                                                   91.81(F)
Home occupation   SS  SS  SS  SS  SS  SS                       SS  §
                                                                   91.81(B)
Portable storage  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS PS PS  PS     PS  §
container                                                          91.82
Satellite dish    PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS PS PS  PS     PS  §
antenna                                                            91.81(G )
Swimming pool     PS  PS  PS  PS  PS  PS      PS PS     PS PS  PS  §
                                                                   91.81(C)
Commercial                                             
Adult                                                              §
entertainment                                       SS             91.83
business
Animal hospital                                  P
Appliance store                                  P
Auction conducted                                                  §
entirely within a                             SS P  P              91.99
building
Auction conducted
within a building
and/or with                                         P
outside sales and
display
Auction, estate   PS  PS  P S PS  PS  PS  PS  PS PS PS  PS PS  PS  §
                                                                   91.100
Auto parts and                                   P
accessories
Auto repair and                                  P  P
service
Auto sales and                                   P
service
Auto washing                                     P  P
establishment
Barber shop,                                  P  P
beauty shop
Battery charging  PS  PS  P S P S PS  PS  PS  PS PS P S        PS  §
station                                                            91.84
Battery exchange                                 PS PS             §
station                                                            91.84
Beverage store                                P  P
Book store,
including the
retail of                                     P  P
stationery,
books, magazines,
newspapers
Bottling and                                        P
canning plant
Bowling alley                                    P
Building supplies
(wholesale,                                         P
retail)
Building supplies                                P
and sales
Cinema complex                                   P
Clothing store                                P  P
Computer sales                                P  P
and repair
Contract
construction                                        P
services
Convenience
store, including                              S  P
accessory
gasoline sales
Cosmetics store                               P  P
Drug store                                    P  P
Dry cleaning
(less 59 than                                 P  P
1,500 square
feet)
Dry cleaning
(more than 1,500                                 P
square feet)
Electrical repair
or contractor (no                                P  P
open storage)
Electrical repair
or contractor                                       P
(open storage)
Electronic
equipment                                           P
manufacturing
Exterminating and
pest control                                     P  P
services
Fabric store                                  P  P
Farm equipment                                   P  P
sales and service
Farm supplies,
feed, seed,                                      P  P
fertilizer and
chemicals
Farmers market                                   P      P
Financial                                 P   P  P
institution, bank
Florist                                       P  P
Gift shop                                     P  P
Greenhouse,
nursery and/or                                   P  P   P
landscape
business
Groceries/food                                S  P
store
Hardware store                                   P
Heating and air
condition
installation and                              P  P
repair (no open
storage of
materials)
Heating and air
condition
installation and                                 P
repair (open
storage allowed)
Hotel, motel
(minimum size two                                P
acres)
Ice cream stand                               P  P
or store
Jewelry store                                 P  P
Kennel                                           PS     PS         §
                                                                   91.86
Laundry, customer                             P  P
self service
Metal working                                       P
Mixed use                                 SS  SS SS            SS  §
                                                                   91.87
Music instrument                              P  P
and service
Music studio                                  P  P
Office supplies                               P  P
Paint store                                   P  P
Physical fitness/                             P  P
exercise center
Picture framing                               P  P
Plant nurseries                                  P
Plumbing repair
contractor (no                                   P  P
open storage)
Plumbing repair
contractor (open                                    P
storage allowed)
Printing                                         P
establishment
Private postal
shipping and                                  P  P
receiving
Produce stand,                                   P  P
general retail
Radio                                            P
communications
Restaurant,
excluding drive-
in/drive-                                     P  P
through
facilities
Restaurant,
including drive-
in/drive-                                     P  P
through
facilities
Retail apparel                                P  P
and accessories
Retail furniture,                             P  P
home furnishings
Retail trade,
commercial
services and                                     P
sales (not
otherwise listed)
Service station                               PS P                 §
                                                                   91.88
Shoe repair                                   P  P
Shopping center                               SS P                 §
                                                                   91.89
Sporting goods                                P  P
store
Storage, indoor/                                 P  P
outdoor
Tailor/
dressmaker/                                   P  P
seamstress
Tattoo/body                                      SS                §
piercing parlor                                                    91.90
Telecommunication                                SS SS             §
facilities                                                         91.91
Theater                                          P
Toy store                                     P  P
Upholstery -                                     P  P
furniture repair
Industrial                                             
Agricultural                                        P   P
processing
Heliport                                            S
Retail sales
incidental to the                                   P
light industrial
use
Textile                                             P
manufacturing
Tire sales and
services,                                           P
recapping
Trades and
commercial                                       P
services
Trucking terminal                                   P
Warehousing and                                     P
storage services
Wholesale
business (not to                                    P
public)
Wholesale trade
except petroleum
bulk stations and                                   P
scrap and waste
materials
Office/                                                
Institutional
Adult care home   S                       P      P
Adult day care    S                       P      P
program
Advertising                               P   P  P
agency
Ambulance                                 P      P
services
Arboretum and                             S      P         S
botanical garden
Art gallery                               P   P  P
Assisted living                           P      P
residence
Cemetery          S                       PS     PS     PS SS      §
                                                                   91.92
Charitable                                P   P  P
organization
Child care center                         PS     PS            PS  §
                                                                   91.93
Church            S   S   S   S   S   S   P   P  P             P
Civic, social and
fraternal                                 P   P  P
organization
Club, public or                           P   P  P
private
Crematorium                                      PS PS  PS         §
                                                                   91.94
Funeral home                              P      P
Government agency                         P   P  P  P
Hospice                                   P   P  P
Library                                   P   P  P
Multi-unit
assisted housing                          P
with services
Museum                                    P   P  P
Nursing home                              P      P
Place of assembly                         SS     P                 §
                                                                   91.95
Professional                              P   P  P
services office
Public safety
facilities (fire,                         P   P  P
police and the
like)
Residential
child-care                                P      P
facility
School, public    S   S   S   S   S   S   P
and parochial
Travel agency                             P   P  P
Recreation/                                            
Conservation
Bona fide farm    PS  PS  P S P S PS  PS  PS  PS PS P S PS PS  PS  §
                                                                   91.96
Community                                 P   P  P
recreation center
Golf and driving                          SS     SS        SS      §
range, par 3                                                       91.97
Golf course       S   S   S   S   S   S          P         P   S   §
                                                                   91.98
Park, private     P   P   P   P   P   P   P                P   P
Publicly-owned
and/or operated
park, open space,
recreational
facility or use   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P         P   P
and the equipment
necessary to
operate such
areas
Public/private    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P  P      P   P
conservation area
Residential                                            
Dwelling,
conventional on-
site stick-built  P   P   P   P   P   P   P             P      P
construction and
modular
Dwelling,
manufactured home                 P   P                 P      P
(on individual
lot)
Dwelling,                 P   P   P   P   S                    S
multiple-family
Dwelling, single-
family (excluding P   P   P   P   P   P   P                    P
manufactured
homes)
Dwelling, single-
family (excluding
manufactured      P   P   P   P   P   P   P                S   P
homes) 1 acre
lots or larger
Dwelling, two-            P   P   P   P   P                    P
family
Family care home  P   P   P   P   P   P   P                    P
Family child care S   S   S   S   S   S   P                    S
home
Family foster     S   S   S   S   S   S   P                    S
home
Granny pods       PS  PS  PS  P S PS  PS  PS                   PS  §
                                                                   91.101
Home stay lodging P   P   P   P   P   P   P                    P   §
                                                                   91.102
Model home sales  P   P   P   P   P   P   P
office, temporary
Rooming and                       P   P   P
boarding house
Therapeutic       P   P   P   P   P   P   P                    P
foster home
Tourist home                      P   P   P      P
Tiny houses       P   P   P   P   P   P   P                        §
                                                                   91.103
Whole-house                               P   P                    §
lodging                                                            91.104
 
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.4; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 19-11,
passed 5-9-2019; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020; Am. Ord. 22-2, passed 2-14-
2022)
§ 91.75 ZONING DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   R-15 Residential District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area                         15,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width                        75 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard                       30 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards                       10 ft.
(E)   Minimum rear yard                        25 ft.
(F)   Maximum building height                  35 ft.
(G)   Accessory building setback for any lot li10 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1062.jpg]
      (2)   Location of accessory building. Accessory buildings may occupy 10%
of the gross lot area and, except for attached garages, must be built to the
rear of the principal building.
      (3)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the setback for all structures located
on that side of the lot abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line
shall not be less than one-half the front yard requirement.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (B)   R-12 Residential District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area                         12,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width                        75 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard                       30 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards                       10 ft.
(E)   Minimum rear yard                        25 ft.
(F)   Maximum building height                  35 ft.
(G)   Accessory building setback for any lot li10 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1064.jpg]
      (2)   Location of accessory building. Accessory buildings may occupy 10%
of the gross lot area and, except for attached garages, must be built to the
rear of the principal building.
      (3)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the setback for all structures located
on that side of the lot abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line
shall not be less than one-half the front yard requirement.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (C)   R-8 Residential District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
(A)   Minimum lot area
   First dwelling unit                         8,000 sq. ft.
   Each additional dwelling unit               4,000 sq. ft.
   Nonresidential                              10,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width                        75 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard                       25 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards                       10 ft.
(E)   Minimum rear yard                        20 ft.
(F)   Maximum building height                  35 ft.
(G)   Accessory building setback for any lot li10 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1066.jpg]
      (2)   Location of accessory building. Accessory buildings may occupy 10%
of the gross lot area and, except for attached garages, must be built to the
rear of the principal building.
      (3)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the setback for all structures located
on that side of the lot abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line
shall not be less than one-half the front yard requirement.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (D)   R-6 Residential District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
(A)   Minimum lot area
   First dwelling unit                         6,000 sq. ft.
   Each additional dwelling unit               3,000 sq. ft.
   Nonresidential                              10,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width                        60 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard                       25 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards                       10 ft.
(E)   Minimum rear yard                        20 ft.
(F)   Maximum building height                  35 ft.
(G)   Accessory building setback for any lot li10 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1068.jpg]
      (2)   Location of accessory building. Accessory buildings may occupy 10%
of the gross lot area and, except for attached garages, must be built to the
rear of the principal building.
      (3)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the setback for all structures located
on that side of the lot abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line
shall not be less than one-half the front yard requirement.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
      (6)   Exceptions.
 
Subdivision                  Front Yard Rear Yard Side Yard
Carolina Shores Subdivision  20 ft.     10 ft.    3 ft. and 7 ft. (10 ft., both
                                                  side combined)
Cedar Tree Subdivision       25 ft.     9 ft.     5 ft.
Lighthouse Cove Subdivision  25 ft.     25 ft.    10 ft.
Ocean Side Place Subdivision 25 ft.     9 ft.     5 ft.
 
   (E)   MFH I Manufactured Home District I.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area                         6,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width                        60 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard                       25 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards                       5 ft.
(E)   Minimum rear yard                        20 ft.
(F)   Maximum building height                  35 ft.
(G)   Accessory building setback for any lot li10 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1070.jpg]
      (2)   Location of accessory building. Accessory buildings may occupy 10%
of the gross lot area and, except for attached garages, must be built to the
rear of the principal building.
      (3)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the setback for all structures located
on that side of the lot abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line
shall not be less than one-half the front yard requirement.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (F)   MFH II Manufactured Home District II.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
(A)   Minimum lot area (includes both manufactured homes located in MH parks 6,000
and on individual lots)                                                         sq.
                                                                                ft.
                                                                                3,000
(B)   Minimum lot area for each additional dwelling unit                     sq.
                                                                                ft.*
(C)   Minimum lot width                                                      60
                                                                                ft.
(D)   Minimum front yard                                                     25
                                                                                ft.
(E)   Minimum side yards                                                     5 ft.
(F)   Minimum rear yard                                                      20
                                                                                ft.
(G)   Maximum building height                                                35
                                                                                ft.
(H)   Accessory building setback for any lot line                            10
                                                                                ft.
*   Provided that the area requirements for all other applicable standards, such as
individual water and sewer system, are met
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1072.jpg]
      (2)   Location of accessory building. Accessory buildings may occupy 10%
of the gross lot area and, except for attached garages, must be built to the
rear of the principal building.
      (3)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the setback for all structures located
on that side of the lot abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line
shall not be less than one-half the front yard requirement.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (G)   O/I Office and Institutional District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area     10,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width    75 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard   30 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards   10 ft.
(E)   Minimum rear yard    15 ft.
(F)   Maximum building heig35 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1074.jpg]
      (2)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the setback for all structures located
on that side of the lot abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line
shall not be less than one-half the front yard requirement.
      (3)   Buildings. All buildings in the Office/Institutional District shall
be permanent fully enclosed construction. Portable, open air shed type
structures shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading shall be
provided, as required by §§
91.120 through
91.129.
      (6)   Buffers. Refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (7)   Landscaping. For landscaping requirements, refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (8)   Sales prohibited. No merchandise, wares, goods, foods and the like
are permitted to be sold or offered for sale on any publicly-owned sidewalks or
sidewalks right-of-way or public thoroughfare or public highway or public
property within the town, or its extraterritorial area.
   (H)   NB Neighborhood Business District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area     10,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width    75 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard   30 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards   10 ft.*
(E)   Minimum rear yard    10 ft.*
(F)   Maximum building heig35 ft.
*   25 feet abutting lot zoned residential
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1076.jpg]
      (2)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the side yard on that side of the lot
abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Buildings. All buildings in the Neighborhood Business District
shall be permanent fully enclosed construction. Portable, open air shed type
structures shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading shall be
provided, as required by §§
91.120 through
91.129.
      (6)   Buffers. Refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (7)   Landscaping. For landscaping requirements, refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (8)   Sales prohibited. No merchandise, wares, goods, foods and the like
are permitted to be sold or offered for sale on any publicly-owned sidewalks or
sidewalks right-of-way or public thoroughfare or public highway or public
property within the town, or its extraterritorial area.
   (I)   HC Highway Commercial District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area     10,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width    75 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard   50 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards   10 ft.*
(E)   Minimum rear yard    10 ft.*
(F)   Maximum building heig35 ft.
*   25 feet abutting lot zoned residential
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1078.jpg]
      (2)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the side yard on that side of the lot
abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Buildings. All buildings in the Highway Commercial District shall
be permanent fully enclosed construction. Portable, open air shed type
structures shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (5)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading shall be
provided, as required by §§
91.120 through
91.129.
      (6)   Buffers. Refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (7)   Landscaping. For landscaping requirements, refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (8)   Sales prohibited. No merchandise, wares, goods, foods and the like
are permitted to be sold or offered for sale on any publicly-owned sidewalks or
sidewalks right-of-way or public thoroughfare or public highway or public
property within the town, or its extraterritorial area.
   (J)   ID Industrial District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area     1 acre
(B)   Minimum lot width    100 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard   35 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards   15 ft.*
(E)   Minimum rear yard    15 ft.*
(F)   Maximum building heig35 ft.
*   25 feet abutting lot zoned residential
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1080.jpg]
      (2)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading shall be
provided, as required by §§
91.120 through
91.129. Off-street parking shall not be permitted in the required front yard
setback.
      (3)   Buffers. Refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (4)   Landscaping. For landscaping requirements, refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (5)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
   (K)   CRD Conservation/Recreation District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
 
(A)   Minimum lot area     1 acre
(B)   Minimum lot width    100 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard   40 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards   20 ft.
(E)   Minimum rear yard    30 ft.
(F)   Maximum building heig35 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1082.jpg]
      (2)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (3)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (L)   AD Agricultural District.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements.
(A)   Minimum lot area     20,000 sq. ft.
(B)   Minimum lot width    75 ft.
(C)   Minimum front yard   25 ft.
(D)   Minimum side yards   10 ft.*
(E)   Minimum rear yard    20 ft.*
(F)   Maximum building heig35 ft.
(G)   Accessory structure  10 ft.*
*   25 feet abutting lot zoned residential
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1084.jpg]
      (2)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the side yard on that side of the lot
abutting the street adjacent to a side yard lot line shall be not less than 15
feet.
      (3)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
      (4)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading shall be
provided, as required by §§
91.120 through
91.129.
      (5)   Buffers. Refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (6)   Landscaping. For landscaping requirements, refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150.
      (7)   Sales prohibited. No merchandise, wares, goods, foods and the like
are permitted to be sold or offered for sale on any publicly-owned sidewalks or
sidewalks right-of-way or public thoroughfare or public highway or public
property within the town, or its extraterritorial area.
      (8)   Bona fide farms. Bona fide farms are exempt from the regulation of
this Unified Development Ordinance within the town’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.5; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.76—91.79 RESERVED.
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 91.80 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The following supplemental regulations shall pertain to the uses
listed in the Table of Uses located in §
91.74 which are identified with an “S” for supplemental regulations.
   (B)   For any use which requires the issuance of a special use permit, the
supplemental use regulations listed herein may be in addition to any other fair
and reasonable conditions placed on the use by the Board of Commissioners. The
conditions may impose greater restrictions on a particular use than those which
are listed herein.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.1; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.81 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Location of accessory buildings. Accessory buildings may occupy 10% of
the gross lot area, must be built a minimum of ten feet from any lot line, and
except for attached garages, must be built to the rear of the principal
building.
   (B)   Home occupation. Home occupations, such as, but not limited to,
dressmaking, catering, baking, hairdressing, laundering, cooking, designing,
accounting and the practice of law, medicine and dentistry shall be permitted
conditionally as accessory uses in a residence or accessory building thereof,
subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   No display of products shall be visible from the street.
      (2)   No mechanical equipment shall be installed or used except such that
is normally used for domestic, professional or hobby purposes and which does
not cause noise or other interference in radio and television reception.
      (3)   Not over 25% of the total actual floor area or 500 square feet,
whichever is less, shall be used for a home occupation.
      (4)   No more than two persons not residing in the dwelling may be
engaged in the home occupation.
      (5)   Traffic generation shall not exceed the traffic volumes generated
by nearby residents. Parking shall be required as provided in §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (C)   Swimming pool. All public, commercial or private outdoor swimming
pools of three feet or more in depth, either above ground or below ground, and
of either permanent or temporary construction shall meet the following
requirements in addition to setbacks and other requirements specified
elsewhere.
      (1)   The setback for an above ground swimming pool from any lot line
equals the required setback for accessory structures in the district in which
it is located plus one foot for each foot over five of pool height. The setback
for an in-ground swimming pool shall be at least two feet.
      (2)   A fence be erected to a minimum height of four feet to completely
enclose all sides of the pool not bounded by a building. A gate of equal height
shall be installed and securely fastened when the pool is not in use.
      (3)   Contractor must have construction fence/silt fence surrounding pool
area (construction site) while under construction.
      (4)   All mechanical equipment be located a minimum of five feet from any
property line and must be screened from view.
   (D)   Dwellings as accessory uses.
      (1)   Dwellings may be accessory uses in residential, office/
institutional and neighborhood business districts if located inside the
principal structure or as a detached structure that is secondary to the primary
structure in size or location such as a garage apartment. Dwellings as
accessory uses in residential districts are permitted only if used as a
residence by relatives or household employees and no rent is charged. Mobile
homes shall not be used as accessory residences in any residential district
except the MFH II District.
      (2)   One single-family dwelling per individual business may be an
accessory use in the NB Neighborhood Business District if located inside the
principal building.
      (3)   Travel trailers and recreation vehicles may not be used as an
accessory dwelling.
   (E)   Retail sales and services as accessory uses. Retail sales and services
are permitted as accessory uses when clearly incidental to the principal use.
With the exception of restaurants in conjunction with a motel, such uses shall
be conducted wholly within the principal building, without access thereto other
than from within the building, and without exterior advertising or display. In
hospitals and clinics these accessory uses may include drug stores, florists,
gift and book shops and cafeterias. In institutional settings, office
buildings, hotels, country club houses and airports, such activities may
include gift and book shops, restaurants, cafeterias and coffee shops, lounges,
pro shops and beauty and barbershops.
   (F)   Fences and walls.
      (1)   Ornamental fences and walls not over four feet high may project
into or may enclose any front or side yard, and fences or walls enclosing rear
yards may be six feet high. An open fence or wall through which clear vision is
possible from one side to the other on a horizontal plane and such openings
occupy 50% or more of the area of the fences or walls, may be erected in the
rear yard to a maximum height of ten feet in nonresidential districts. The
finished side on the fences shall be on the outside facing the street and/or
neighboring properties.
      (2)   Survey map is required for installation of fence, to illustrate
intent of location. A minimum setback of one inch is required from the property
line.
   (G)   Satellite dish antenna ; general require- ments.
      (1)   All satellite dishes shall be installed in compliance with FCC
regulations.
      (2)   Residential satellite dishes shall not exceed 24 inches in diameter
and nonresidential satellite dishes shall not exceed 36 inches in diameter
unless approved by the UDO Administrator.
      (3)   If possible, satellite dishes shall not be located in a front yard
and shall be hidden from view of the public right-of-way. All locations shall
be approved by the UDO Administrator.
   (H)   Beehives as accessory uses.
      (1)   Up to five hives shall be permitted on a single parcel.
      (2)   Hives shall be placed at ground level or securely attached to an
anchor or stand. If the hive is securely attached to an anchor or stand, the
anchor or stand may be permanently attached to a roof surface.
      (3)   Hives must comply with all setback requirements for accessory
structures.
      (4)   Removal of hives may be required if the owner no longer maintains
the hive or if removal is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the public.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.2; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.82 PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS are defined as:
      (1)   Containers no larger in dimension than eight feet by eight feet six
inches by 16 feet and transported to a designated location for temporary
storage purposes, including moving (typically known
as PODS);
      (2)   Containers designed or used on property zoned or used for
residential property for the collection and hauling of waste or debris,
including, but not limited to, roll-off containers or boxes and bin containers
(construction dumpsters); and
      (3)   Non self-propelled, fully enclosed trailers that are designed or
used to transport goods, materials and equipment and are placed on property
zoned or used for residential purposes (semi-trailers).
   (B)   Portable storage containers may be allowed pursuant to the use table
contained in §
91.74, upon compliance with all of the following.
      (1)   No more than two temporary storage containers shall be located on a
single lot or parcel of land.
      (2)   No other type of container or shipping container is located on the
same lot or parcel of land.
      (3)   Portable storage containers shall not be used to store or transport
hazardous materials and substances, including, but not limited to, the
following: solid waste, hazardous materials, explosives and unlawful substances
and materials.
      (4)   Permits issued for portable storage containers will be issued
incident to an active building permit. Subsequent to issuance of a certificate
of occupancy all portable storage containers must be removed within 30 days.
The owner(s) of a lot or parcel on which a dumpster will be placed shall be
jointly responsible for providing notice to the UDO Administrator within 24
hours of the placement. The placement of the storage container will require the
issuance of a permit through the town. The UDO Administrator may approve an
extension by issuing an extension permit for up to 90 days if a building permit
had been issued for the renovation, repair or reconstruction, if required, and
remains valid beyond the initial 30 days approval, provided that the portable
storage container will not be used to store nonresidential materials and
equipment such as contractor’s materials and equipment during the extension.
Portable storage containers shall comply with the following setbacks.
         (a)   If a portable storage container is placed in the required front
yard, then the portable storage container shall be located only in the area
primarily used for vehicular ingress and egress and must have five feet setback
from the edge of the paved right-of-way, unless otherwise approved by the UDO
Administrator.
         (b)   If a portable storage container is placed in the required rear
or side yard, no setback shall be required except that no portable storage
container shall encroach upon adjacent property.
      (5)   Portable storage containers (PODS) for the purposes of moving must
be removed within 30 days.
      (6)   Portable storage containers shall be constructed of noncombustible
materials.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.83 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons,
partnership, limited partnership or corporation or any other entity to operate
or cause to be operated an adult entertainment business except as permitted
herein.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to regulate adult
entertainment businesses, whether as a principal or as an accessory use, as a
“special use.” The conditions noted hereinafter are the minimum required.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   No more than one adult entertainment business shall be located on
any one lot or parcel.
      (2)   Measurements of distance separation shall be in a straight line
from the closest points of the buildings at which the adult uses are located.
      (3)   Adult entertainment businesses shall not be located closer than:
         (a)   Fifteen hundred feet from any residence or residential zoning
district;
         (b)   Fifteen hundred feet from any church, child care center, public
or private elementary or secondary educational school, college or institution
of higher learning, public park, public library, cemetery or motion picture
establishment which shows G- or PG-rated movies to the general public on a
regular basis; and
         (c)   Fifteen hundred feet from any other adult entertainment
business.
   (D)   Ownership disclosure. If a person who wishes to operate an adult
entertainment business is an individual, he or she must sign the application as
applicant. If the owner of a proposed adult entertainment business is other
than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the
business must sign an application for a permit and/or license as applicant. If
a corporation is listed as an owner of the adult business or is an entity which
wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation, must sign the application for a permit and/or
license as applicant. All corporate officers shall also sign the application.
The fact that a person possesses other types of state or county permits and/or
licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit and/or license.
   (E)   Age requirements. An adult entertainment business shall neither employ
nor permit the admittance/patronage of any person who is under 21 years of age.
   (F)   Inspections. The management of adult entertainment businesses shall
permit representatives of the Police Department, Sheriff’s Department, Health
Department, Building Inspection Department, Zoning Code Enforcement Department,
Fire Department, Planning and Zoning Department or other municipal, county or
state departments to inspect the premises at any time it is open for business.
   (G)   Revocation of zoning compliance. The UDO Administrator shall remove a
certificate of zoning compliance thereby suspending the operation of any adult
entertainment business for the following:
      (1)   For giving false or misleading information by the permittee at any
time in the application process;
      (2)   Illegal sale of any controlled substance on the premises;
      (3)   Failure to permit inspection by authorized municipal, county and
state agencies or its authorized personnel;
      (4)   Violation of age restrictions as specified in this section; and
      (5)   For the arrest and conviction of any owner or employee for
violation of any of the ABC laws or controlled substance laws of the state.
   (H)   Regulations for adult motels.
      (1)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar
commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period
of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttal presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in this Unified
Development Ordinance.
      (2)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
      (3)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the terms RENT and SUBRENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
   (I)   Regulations for nude model studios.
      (1)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
      (2)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this section
if the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of a nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (I)
(2) if the person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view
or visible by any other person.
      (3)   It is a violation of this section if the person appears in a state
of nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an
area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-
of-way.
      (4)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or
mattress in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a
reception room open to the public.
   (J)   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos and live performances.
      (1)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, other video reproduction, or live performance that depicts specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the
following requirements.
         (a)   Upon application for a certificate of zoning compliance for a
sexually oriented business license, the application shall be accompanied by a
diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof specifying the location of one
or more managers’ stations and the location of all overhead lighting fixtures
and designating any portion of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The
diagram shall also designate the place at which the business license will be
conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designed
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
UDO Administrator may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
         (b)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
         (c)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the UDO Administrator.
         (d)   It is the duty of the owner(s) and operator of the premises to
ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
         (e)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of the
entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction
equipment. If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designed, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations.
The view required in this division (J)(1)(e) must be by direct line of sight
from the manager’s station.
         (f)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and operator, and it shall
also be the duty of the agent(s) and employee(s) present in the premises, to
ensure that the view area specified in division (J)(1)(e) above remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (J)(1)(a) above.
         (g)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
         (h)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five footcandles as
measured at the floor level.
         (i)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and operator, and it shall
be the duty of any agent(s) and employee(s) present in the premises, to ensure
that the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any
patron is present in the premises.
         (j)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
         (k)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
         (l)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during
each business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if
any openings or holes exist.
         (m)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
         (n)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
      (2)   A person having a duty under divisions (J)(1)(a) through (J)(1)(n)
of this section is in violation of this section if he or she knowingly fails to
fulfill that duty.
   (K)   Exterior portions of regulated establishments.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a regulated
establishment to allow the merchandise or activities of the regulated
establishment to be visible from any point outside such regulated
establishment.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a regulated
establishment to allow the exterior portions of the regulated establishment to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, drawings or
pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent permitted by the
provisions of this section.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a regulated
establishment to allow exterior portions of the regulated establishment to be
painted any color other than a single achromatic color (i.e., zero saturation
and without hue). This provision shall not apply to any regulated establishment
if the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The regulated establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit
center.
         (b)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the regulated
establishment are painted the same color as one another or are painted in such
a way so as to be a component of the overall architectural style or pattern of
the commercial multi-unit center.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the painting
of an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a regulated establishment.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall supersede or replace any sign
regulation already in effect within the town, but shall be in addition thereto.
   (L)   Signage. Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
   (M)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided, as required by §§
91.120 through
91.129.
   (O)   Hours of operation. No adult establishment shall operate before 4:00
p.m. or after 12:00 midnight, except that tattooing establishments, body
piercing businesses and fortune tellers, as defined herein, shall only conduct
business to the public between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. daily.
   (P)   Revocation of license. In addition to any other remedies, the town may
apply to General Court of Justice for suitable equitable relief to abate or
otherwise enjoin any violation of this section. Any violation would result in
revocation of permit or license.
   (Q)   Business license. Any person or other entity, prior to operating an
adult entertainment business, shall apply for a business license for the
appropriate category of business of the adult entertainment establishment. The
applicant shall pay the fee therefor as set forth in G.S. Chapter 105.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.4; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.84 BATTERY CHARGING/EXCHANGE STATION.
   Battery charging stations and battery exchange stations shall be permitted
in accordance with §
91.74, subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Electric vehicle charging stations should be reserved for parking and
charging of electric vehicles only.
   (B)   Electric vehicles may be parked in any space designated for public
parking, subject to the restrictions that would apply to any other vehicle that
would park in that space.
   (C)   Battery charging station: for land use compatibility purposes, the
charging activity should be proportionate to the associated permitted use.
Electric vehicle charging station(s) shall be permitted in a single-family
garage designed to service the occupants of the home. Accessory single-family
charging stations shall not exceed residential Building Code electrical
limitations. Whereas, charging station(s) installed in a parking lot for non
single-family residential use are expected to have intensive use and will be
permitted to have multiple “rapid charging stations” to serve expected demand.
   (D)   Battery exchange station: exchange stations are permitted in any
commercial or industrial zoning district, provided, however, all other
requirements for the building or space the use occupies can be satisfied, such
as design review, Fire Code and Building Code requirements. This use is
specifically prohibited in exclusively residential or conservation/recreation
zoning districts.
   (E)   Design criteria for commercial and multi-family development, the
following criteria shall be applied to electric charging facilities.
      (1)   Number required. This is an optional improvement. No minimum number
of stalls applies. However, if electric vehicle stalls are reserved for
electric vehicles, care should be taken to ensure enough spots are available
for all of a site’s parking needs.
      (2)   Generally. Location and provision of electric vehicle parking will
vary based on the design and use of the primary parking lot, keeping in mind
flexibility will be needed in various parking lot layout options.
      (3)   Signage to identify. Each charging station space should be posted
with signage indicating the space is only for electric vehicle charging
purposes. Days and hours of operations should be included if time limits or tow
away provisions are to be enforced by the owner.
      (4)   Maintenance. Charging station equipment should be maintained in all
respects, including the functioning of the charging equipment.
      (5)   Accessibility. Where charging station equipment is provided within
an adjacent pedestrian circulation area, such as a sidewalk or accessible route
to the building entrance, charging equipment should be located so as to not
interfere with accessibility.
      (6)   Lighting. Where charging station equipment is installed, adequate
site lighting should also be provided unless charging is for daytime purposes
only.
      (7)   Notification of station specifics. Information on the charging
station identifying voltage and amperage levels and any time of use, fees or
safety information.
      (8)   Avoid the most convenient parking spaces. Stalls should not be
located in the most convenient spots because this would encourage use by non
electric vehicles.
      (9)   Avoid conflict with handicap spots. Stalls should generally not be
located adjacent to handicap spots unless designed for handicapped use.
      (10)   Design for compatibility. Design should be appropriate to the
location and use. Facilities should be able to be readily identified by
electric cars but blended into the surrounding landscape/ architecture for
compatibility with the character and use of the site.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.5; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.85 RESERVED.
§ 91.86 KENNEL.
   The standards in this section apply to facilities, such as animal kennels
and animal shelters, where the primary purpose is the boarding of household
pets. It shall not apply to boarding facilities incidental to the operation of
an animal hospital or clinic or to pet stores.
   (A)   No kennel shall be operated without all necessary licensure,
certification or other form of permission from the state and any other
governmental agency with jurisdiction over its operation. Loss of such
permission shall be grounds for revocation of any conditional use permit
authorizing a kennel.
   (B)   No kennel shall be located within 500 feet of the nearest lot line of
a residential use or a residential zoning district.
   (C)   Kennels shall be adequately buffered to prevent sounds from
constituting a nuisance to neighboring properties.
   (D)   Housing facilities for animals shall be structurally sound and shall
be maintained in good repair, shall be designed so as to protect the animals
from injury, shall contain the animals, and shall restrict the entrance of
other animals.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.7; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.87 MIXED USE.
   (A)   Mixed use defined. The MIXED USE OPTION is provided to allow
flexibility in development requirements such as setbacks, density, permitted
uses and the like, to accommodate the unique physical, economic, design or
other characteristics of a development without compromising the essential
standards needed for the protection of the public interest. Mixed use
developments require a special use permit, as specified in §
91.56, in which the primary use of land is a mix of residential and small-scale
commercial uses such as retail, office, service and entertainment
establishments. A mix of permitted uses is allowed within the same building or
on the same lot or as  separate uses on individual parcels. This development
pattern is characterized by overlapping patterns of use and activities, and
clearly defined, human scale external spaces, where citizens can live, conduct
business and meet freely with others. Development within the mixed use
conditional use shall be in accordance with the standards set forth herein.
   (B)   Performance standards. The UDO Administrator, Planning Board and Board
of Commissioners will work cooperatively with the applicant in determining the
appropriate performance standards for mixed use developments. The standards of
the zoning district, or districts, in which the mixed use is located, provide
general guidance in determining the standards, with consideration given to the
specific characteristics and needs of the individual project. Ultimately, all
performance standards such as density, permitted uses, parcel dimensional
requirements, lighting, landscaping, parking, signage and the like, shall be
established by the Board of Commissioners upon recommendation of the Planning
Board through issuance of the conditional use permit. The conditions specified
by the conditional use permit shall be compatible with the surrounding area and
the objectives of this UDO. Creative design concepts are encouraged to minimize
impacts on infrastructure and to support environmental protection. The mixed
use shall comply with §§
91.240 through
91.261,
91.270 and
91.280, Environmental Regulations and §§
91.210 through
91.229, Subdivisions.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following uses may be established as permitted
uses in a mixed use development. Any use that is not listed in this section is
expressively prohibited from being located within a mixed use development.
      (1)   Accessory uses;
      (2)   Art gallery;
      (3)   Bank/financial services;
      (4)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (5)   Bookstore, including the retail of stationery, books, magazines,
newspapers;
      (6)   Clothing store;
      (7)   Computer sales and repair;
      (8)   Cosmetics store;
      (9)   Drug store;
      (10)   Dwelling, duplex;
      (11)   Dwelling, multi-family;
      (12)   Dwelling, single-family;
      (13)   Fabric store;
      (14)   Flower shop;
      (15)   Gift shop;
      (16)   Government offices, including post offices;
      (17)   Home occupation;
      (18)   Ice cream stand or store;
      (19)   Jewelry store;
      (20)   Laundry and dry cleaning services;
      (21)   Museum, library;
      (22)   Music instrument and service;
      (23)   Music studio;
      (24)   Nail/tanning salon;
      (25)   Office supplies;
      (26)   Park;
      (27)   Physical fitness/exercise center;
      (28)   Picture framing;
      (29)   Private postal shipping and receiving;
      (30)   Professional services office;
      (31)   Residential dwellings as part of a mixed use structure, including
single-family, multi-family and accessory to a business;
      (32)   Restaurant, excluding drive-in or drive-through service;
      (33)   Retail apparel and accessories;
      (34)   Retail furniture, home furnishings;
      (35)   Sporting goods store;
      (36)   Tailor/dressmaking/seamstress;
      (37)   Toy store; and
      (38)   Travel agency.
   (D)   Mixed use special use design standards. The mixed use special use
shall be developed in a way that it is functionally and structurally compatible
with the Carolina Shores community and is a pedestrian friendly area. All
building design shall encourage that consideration be given to the following.
      (1)   Special attention shall be given to entrances; they may be set back
from the primary facade as long as they are clearly visible from the street.
Building entrances and exits shall be well lit to provide visibility and
promote safety. Buildings that occur at the intersection of roadways shall
angle the entrance toward the corner of the street whenever possible.
      (2)   All roof- and wall-mounted mechanical, electrical, communications
and service equipment, including satellite dishes and vent pipes, shall be
screened from public view by parapets, walls, fences, dense evergreen foliage
or by other suitable means.
      (3)   Architectural ornaments along the roof line, such as molding
cornices, ornamental bands or sculptures, are required.
      (4)   Street furniture, outdoor eating areas and sitting areas shall be
incorporated at the ground floor.
   (E)   School site reservation. If the Board of Commissioners and the
Brunswick County Board of Education have jointly determined the specific
location and size of any school sites to be reserved in accordance with the
Town Comprehensive Plan, staff shall immediately notify the Board of Education
in writing whenever a development approval is sought or submitted which
includes all or part of a school site to be reserved. The Board of Education
shall promptly decide whether it still wishes the site to be reserved. If the
Board of Education does wish to reserve the site, the subdivision shall not be
approved without such reservation. The Board of Education shall then have 18
months beginning on the date of final approval of the subdivision within which
to acquire the site by purchase or by initiating condemnation proceedings. If
the Board of Education has not purchased or begun proceedings to condemn the
site within 18 months, the developer may treat the land as freed of the
reservation.
   (F)   Dedication of land for park, recreation and open space. Every
developer who proposes a mixed use project of land with a residential component
shall dedicate for public or private use a portion of land or pay a fee in lieu
thereof, in accordance with this section, for public park, greenway, recreation
and open space sites to serve the recreational needs of the residents of the
subdivision or development. The town prefers that ownership and maintenance of
parks, recreation or open space lands be by a private entity, such as a
property owners' association. Dedication of land, or fee in lieu of, must be
approved by the Board of Commissioners prior to approval of the preliminary
plat by the Planning Board.
      (1)   At least one-thirty-fifth of an acre shall be dedicated for each
dwelling unit planned or proposed in the development.
      (2)   The minimum amount of land which shall be dedicated for a public
park, recreation or open space site shall be no less than two acres in size.
When the area to be provided is less than two acres, the developer may be
required to make payment in lieu of the dedication to be used for the
acquisition or development of recreation, park or open space sites which would
serve the needs of the residents of the development.
      (3)   Except as otherwise required by the Board of Commissioners, all
dedications of land shall meet the following criteria.
         (a)   The dedicated land shall form a single parcel of land, except
where the Board of Commissioners determines that two or more parcels would be
in the best interest of the public, given the type and distribution of open
spaces needed to adequately serve the proposed development. In these cases, the
Board of Commissioners may require that the parcels be connected by a dedicated
strip of land at least 30 feet in width.
         (b)   Two-thirds of the dedicated land shall be usable for active
recreation. Furthermore, lakes and other bodies of water may not be included in
computing any of the dedicated land area. Land dedicated only for greenways
need not follow the requirements of this division (F)(3)(b).
         (c)   The shape of the portion of the dedicated land which is deemed
suitable for active recreation shall be sufficiently square or round to be
usable for any or all recreational facilities and activities, such as athletic
fields and tennis courts, when a sufficient amount of land is dedicated to
accommodate the facilities. Land dedicated only for greenways need not follow
the requirements of this division (F)(3)(c).
         (d)   The dedicated land shall be located so as to reasonably serve
the recreation and open space needs of residents of the development.
         (e)   Public access to the dedicated land shall be provided either by
adjoining public street frontage or by a dedicated public easement, at least 30
feet wide, which connects the dedicated land to a public street or right-of-
way. Gradients adjacent to existing and proposed streets shall allow for
reasonable access to the dedicated land. Where the dedicated land is located
adjacent to a street, the developer shall remain responsible for the
installation of utilities, sidewalks and other improvements required along that
street segment.
         (f)   Dedicated parks, recreation and open space areas shall have a
sufficient natural or human-made buffer or screen to minimize any negative
impacts on adjacent residents.
      (4)   The payment of fees, in lieu of the dedication of land, may occur
at the request of the developer. However, the decision to require the
dedication of land for recreational purposes, or a payment of a fee in lieu,
shall be made by the Board of Commissioners prior to development approval after
having received a recommendation from the Planning Board and having evaluated
the proposed dedication and the relationship the dedication would have with the
town's overall recreational needs.
         (a)   The fees in lieu of dedication shall be paid prior to the
approval of the development.
         (b)   The amount of the payment shall be the product of:
            1.   The number of acres to be dedicated, as required by this
division (F); and
            2.   The assessed value for property tax purposes of the land being
subdivided, adjusted to reflect its current fair market value at the time the
payment is due to be paid.
         (c)   Procedures for determining the amount of the payment are as
follows.
            1.   An appraisal of the land in the development shall be performed
by a professional land appraiser selected by the developer from an approved
list maintained by the Board of Commissioners. Professional land appraiser
refers to a land appraiser who, in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners,
has the expertise and/or certification to perform an adequate appraisal.
            2.   The cost of the appraisal shall be borne by the developer.
      (5)   At the time of filing an application for approval, the developer
shall designate thereon the area or areas to be dedicated pursuant to this
section. If the developer desires to make a payment in lieu of the dedication
of land, a letter to that effect shall be submitted with the application. The
Board of Commissioners reserves the right to approve or disapprove dedication
of parcels for public park, recreation or open space, or payment in lieu of.
      (6)   Where a dedication of land is required, the dedication shall be
shown on a final plat, and the plat shall be accompanied by an executed general
warranty deed conveying the dedicated land to the town. Where a payment in lieu
of dedication is approved by the Board of Commissioners, the payment will be
made before the development approval is granted.
      (7)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to sell land
dedicated pursuant to this section. The proceeds of the sale shall be used for
the acquisition and/or development of other recreation, park or open space
sites, or for sidewalk development serving the development or more than one
development in the immediate area.
      (8)   The town encourages neighborhood or property owner associations or
management to construct, operate and maintain private parks and recreation. The
construction, operation or maintenance of the private facilities shall not,
however, diminish or eliminate the responsibility and obligations of the
developer under this section.
      (9)   Greenways may be credited against the requirements of this section,
provided that the greenways are part of the town's greenway plan and dedicated
to public use.
   (G)   Street construction. To provide for the orderly growth and development
of the town, and to coordinate the streets and highways within proposed
developments with existing or planned streets and highways, a developer may be
required in lieu of required street construction and as a condition of
approval, to provide funds which the town may use for the construction of roads
to serve the occupants, residents, or invitees of the development and these
funds may be used for roads which serve more than one subdivision or
development within the area. All funds received by the town pursuant to this
division shall be used only for development of roads, including design, land
acquisition, and construction. The town may undertake these activities in
conjunction with the North Carolina Department of Transportation under an
agreement between the town and the Department of Transportation. Any formula
adopted to determine the amount of funds the developer is to pay in lieu of
required street construction shall be based on the trips generated from the
subdivision or development. A combination of partial payment of such funds and
partial dedication of constructed streets may be required when the Board of
Commissioners determines that such a combination is in the best interests of
the public in the area to be served.
   (H)   Uniform standardization of infrastructure. To provide for the orderly
growth and development of the town, and to coordinate infrastructure,
developments made pursuant to §
91.87 shall also comply with §§
91.217 through
91.224 of the Code of Ordinances as amended. In order that proper reference be
made to §§
91.217 through
91.224, for the purposes of this division the term subdivider or subdivision
shall mean developer or development as appropriate.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.8; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 5-9-2019; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.88 SERVICE STATION.
   Gasoline service stations shall be a permitted use in the NB District
provided the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The service station is limited in function to dispensing gasoline,
oil, grease, antifreeze, tires, batteries and automobile accessories directly
related to motor vehicles; to washing, polishing and servicing motor vehicles,
only to the extent of installation of the above-mentioned items; and to selling
at retail the items customarily sold by service stations.
   (B)   The service station shall not overhaul motors, provide upholstery
work, auto glass work, painting, welding, bodywork, tire recapping or auto
dismantling.
   (C)   The service station shall provide a screen planting and/or fence along
the property lines that abut residential properties.
   (D)   Service stations shall extinguish all floodlights at the close of
daily operation or 11:00 p.m., whichever is earlier.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.9; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.89 SHOPPING CENTER.
   In the NB Zoning District, shopping centers shall be limited to those
developments complying with the minor site plan requirements contained in §§
91.60 through
91.66.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.10; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.90 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING PARLOR.
   Tattoo and body piercing parlors shall be subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   No person shall engage in tattooing or body piercing without first
obtaining a tattooing or body piercing permit from the Department of Health and
Human Services.
   (B)   Licensed physicians, as well as physician assistants and nurse
practitioners working under the supervision of a licensed physician, performing
tattoo or body piercing within the normal course of their professional practice
are exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.11; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.91 TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to set forth the requirements
for planning and construction of telecommunications facilities including
cellular antennas, wireless communication towers and principal communication
towers for other uses.
   (B)   Compliance with federal law.
      (1)   The deployment of wireless infrastructure is critical to ensuring
first responders can provide for the health and safety of all residents of
North Carolina and that, consistent with § 6409 of the Federal Middle Class Tax
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), which creates a
national wireless emergency communications network for use by first responders
that in large measure will be dependent on facilities placed on existing
wireless communications support structures, it is the policy of the state and
the town to facilitate the placement of wireless communications support
structures in all areas of the town.
      (2)   The placement, construction or modification of wireless
communications facilities shall be in conformity with the Federal
Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. § 332 as amended, § 6409 of the Federal Middle
Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), and in
accordance with the rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission.
   (C)   Facilities permitted. Telecommunications facilities, including
cellular antennas and wireless communications towers and facilities, are
permitted subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Location. The proposed tower, antenna and accessory structure and
equipment shall be placed in a location and in a manner that will minimize the
visual impact on the surrounding area. Any tower, antenna or accessory
structure shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners for compliance with
these requirements.
      (2)   Collocation. Approval for a proposed tower within a radius of
10,500 feet from an existing tower or other similar structure shall not be
issued unless the applicant certifies that the existing tower or structure does
not meet applicant’s structural specifications or technical design
requirements, or that a collocation agreement could not be obtained at a
reasonable market rate and in a timely manner.
      (3)   Height. The height of the tower shall not exceed 160 feet as
measured from existing grade at its base to the highest point of the tower or
antennas. An additional 120 feet of height may be approved if the tower is
designed to accommodate twice the applicant’s antennas requirements.
Telecommunications antennas or equipment mounted on a building shall meet
height requirements of §
91.75.
      (4)   Setback. Unless otherwise stated herein, each wireless support
structure shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to its
engineered fall zone.
      (5)   Design.
         (a)   Towers shall be designed to accommodate additional antennas
equal in number to the applicant’s present and future requirements for the life
of the tower. The color of the tower and its antennas shall be one that will
blend to the greatest extent possible with the natural surroundings and shall
be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Concealed wireless facilities shall be designed to accommodate
the collocation of other antennas whenever economically and technically
feasible. Antennas must be enclosed, camouflaged, screened, obscured and
otherwise not readily apparent to a casual observer.
         (c)   [Reserved.]
         (d)   A monopole or replacement pole shall be permitted within utility
easements or rights-of-way, in accordance with the following requirements.
            1.   The utility easement or right-of-way shall be a minimum of 100
feet in width.
            2.   The easement or right-of-way shall contain overhead utility
transmission and/or distribution structures that are 80 feet or greater in
height.
            3.   The height of the monopole or replacement pole may not exceed
by more than 30 feet the height of existing utility support structures.
            4.   Monopoles and the accessory equipment shall be set back a
minimum of 15 feet from all boundaries of the easement or right-of-way.
            5.   Single carrier monopoles may be used within utility easements
and rights-of-way due to the height restriction imposed by division (C)(5)(c)3.
above.
            6.   Poles that use the structure of a utility tower for support
are permitted. Such poles may extend up to 20 feet above the height of the
utility tower.
      (6)   Lighting and marking. Wireless facilities or wireless support
structures shall not be lighted or marked unless required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      (7)   Signage. Signs located at the wireless facility shall be limited to
ownership and contact information, FCC antenna registration number (if
required) and any other information as required by government regulation.
Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
nothing in this Unified Development Ordinance shall prohibit signage that is
approved for other uses on property on which wireless facilities are located
(i.e., approved signage at locations on which concealed facilities are
located).
      (8)   Accessory equipment. Accessory equipment, including any buildings,
cabinets or shelters, shall be used only to house equipment and other supplies
in support of the operation of the wireless facility or wireless support
structure. Any equipment not used in direct support of such operation shall not
be stored on the site.
      (9)   Fencing. Ground-mounted accessory equipment and wireless support
structures shall be secured and enclosed with a fence not less than six feet in
height as deemed appropriate by the UDO Administrator. This requirement may be
waived by the UDO Administrator if it is deemed that a fence is not appropriate
or needed at the proposed location.
      (10)   Maintenance or service structures. One unmanned maintenance or
service structure of not more than 20 feet in height and 400 square feet of
floor space may accompany each tower. The tower and maintenance or service
structure shall not be required to comply with development standards relating
to lot size, setbacks, street frontage and subdivision regulations, so long as
the principal use complies with this subchapter.
      (11)   Existing towers. Existing towers may be replaced or modified
providing that the existing height is not exceeded by more than 20 feet and the
new or modified tower meets all of the requirements of this section except
setback provisions.
      (12)   Replacement of towers. Those towers that are located prior to
September 6, 2012, in the districts as defined by §§
91.70 through
91.73 can be replaced to their current height if completely destroyed by
natural causes and only if the applicant presents engineering data to the Board
of Commissioners that the replacement poses no structural threat to the
surrounding property owners.
      (13)   Nonconforming towers. All nonconforming transmission towers
existing as of the effective date of this Unified Development Ordinance may be
replaced if damaged by no more than 50%. Those towers that are located prior to
September 6, 2012, in the districts as defined by §§
91.70 through
91.73 can be replaced to their current height if completely destroyed by
natural causes and only if the applicant presents engineering data to the Board
of Commissioners that the replacement poses no structural threat to the
surrounding property owners.
      (14)   Miscellaneous provisions.
         (a)   Abandonment and removal. If a wireless support structure is
abandoned, and it remains abandoned for a period in excess of 12 consecutive
months, the town may require that such wireless support structure be removed
only after first providing written notice to the owner of the wireless support
structure and giving the owner the opportunity to take such action(s) as may be
necessary to reclaim the wireless support structure within 60 days of receipt
of said written notice. In the event the owner of the wireless support
structure fails to reclaim the wireless support structure within the 60-day
period, the owner of the wireless support structure shall be required to remove
the same within six months thereafter. The town shall ensure and enforce
removal by means of its existing regulatory authority, with costs of removal
charged to the owner.
         (b)   Multiple uses on a single parcel or lot. Wireless facilities and
wireless support structures may be located on a parcel containing another
principal use on the same site or may be the principal use itself.
      (15)   Leases of property by the town for communication towers. 
         (a)   Any property owned by the town may be leased or rented for such
terms and upon such conditions as the Board of Commissioners may determine, but
not for longer than ten years (except as otherwise provided in division (15)(d)
of this section) and only if the Board of Commissioners determines that the
property will not be needed by the town for the term of the lease. In
determining the term of a proposed lease, periods that may be added to the
original term by options to renew or extend shall be included.
         (b)   Property may be rented or leased only pursuant to a resolution
of the Board of Commissioners authorizing the execution of the lease or rental
agreement adopted at a regular Board of Commissioners meeting upon 30 days
public notice. Notice shall be given by publication describing the property to
be leased or rented, stating the annual rental or lease payments, and
announcing the Board’s intent to authorize the lease or rental at its next
regular meeting.
         (c)   No public notice as required by division (15)(b) of this section
need be given for resolutions authorizing leases or rentals for terms of one
year or less, and the Board of Commissioners may delegate to the Town
Administrator or some other town administrative officer authority to lease or
rent town property for terms of one year or less.
         (d)   Leases for terms of more than ten years shall be treated as a
sale of property and may be executed by following any of the procedures
authorized for sale of real property.
         (e)   Notwithstanding division (15)(d) of this section, the Board of
Commissioners may approve a lease without treating that lease as a sale of
property for any of the following reasons:
            1.   For the siting and operation of a renewable energy facility,
as that term is defined in G.S. § 62-133.8(a)(7), for a term up to 25 years.
            2.   For the siting and operation of a tower, as that term is
defined in G.S. § 146-29.2(a)(7), for communication purposes for a term up to
25 years.
   (D)   Telecommunication facility plans.
      (1)   Approvals required for wireless facilities and wireless support
structures.
         (a)   Administrative review and approval. The following types of
applications are subject to the review process as provided in §§
91.60 through
91.66. No other type of zoning or site plan review is necessary:
            1.   Monopoles or replacement poles located on public property or
within utility easements or rights-of-way, in any zoning district;
            2.   COWs, in any zoning district, if the use of the COW is either
not in response to a declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Governor,
or will last in excess of 120 days;
            3.   Substantial modifications; and
            4.   Collocations.
         (b)   Conditional use permit. Any application for wireless facilities
and/or wireless support structures not subject to administrative review and
approval pursuant to this Unified Development Ordinance shall be permitted in
any district upon the granting of a special use permit in accordance with the
standards for granting special use permits set forth in §
91.56.
         (c)   Exempt from all approval processes. The following are exempt
from all town UDO approval processes and requirements:
            1.   Removal or replacement of transmission equipment on an
existing wireless tower or base station that does not result in a substantial
modification as defined in this Unified Development Ordinance;
            2.   Ordinary maintenance of existing wireless facilities and
wireless support structures, as defined in this Unified Development Ordinance.
Nothing in this section requires an application and approval for routine
maintenance or limits the performance of routine maintenance on wireless
support structures and facilities, including in-kind replacement of wireless
facilities;
            3.   Wireless facilities placed on utility poles;
            4.   COWs placed for a period of not more than 120 days at any
location within the town or after a declaration of an emergency or a disaster
by the Governor.
      (2)   Administrative review and approval process.
         (a)   Content of application package. All administrative review
application packages must contain the following in addition to those
requirements outlined in §§
91.60 through
91.66:
            1.   A fee determined by the town’s fee schedule;
            2.   A written narrative of the development plan.
            3.   Documentation that collocation on existing towers or
structures within a radius of 10,500 feet was attempted by the applicant, but
found unfeasible with reasons noted;
            4.   A notarized affidavit that states the applicant’s willingness
to allow location on the proposed tower, at a fair market price and in a timely
manner, of any other service provided licensed by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) for the Cape Fear market area;
            5.   For collocations and substantial modifications, written
verification from a licensed professional engineer certifying that the host
support structure is structurally and mechanically capable of supporting the
proposed additional antenna or configuration of antennas; and
            6.   For substantial modifications, drawings depicting the
improvements along with their dimensions.
         (b)   Approval schedule. Within 45 days of the receipt of a complete
application for a collocation, a monopole or replacement pole, a non-exempt
COW, or a substantial modification, the UDO Administrator will:
            1.   Review the application for conformity with this Unified
Development Ordinance (see division (C)(4) below). An application under this
section is deemed to be complete unless the UDO Administrator provides notice
that the application is incomplete in writing to the applicant within 45 days
of submission or within some other mutually agreed upon timeframe. The notice
shall identify the deficiencies in the application which, if cured, would make
the application complete. The UDO Administrator may deem an application
incomplete if there is insufficient evidence provided to show that the proposed
collocation or eligible facilities request will comply with federal, state and
local safety requirements. The UDO Administrator may not deem an application
incomplete for any issue not directly related to the actual content of the
application and subject matter of the collocation or eligible facilities
request. An application is deemed complete on resubmission if the additional
materials cure the deficiencies indicated; and
            2.   Issue a written decision approval on an eligible facilities
request application within 45 days of such application being deemed complete.
For a collocation application that is not an eligible facilities request, the
UDO Administrator shall issue its written decision to approve or deny the
application within 45 days of the application being deemed complete.
      (3)   Special use permit process. Any wireless facility or wireless
support structures not meeting the requirements of divisions (C)(1)(a) and (C)
(1)(c) above, may be permitted in all zoning districts upon the granting of a
special use permit, subject to the requirements of §
91.56.
         (a)   Content of special use permit application package. All special
use permit application packages must contain the following in addition to those
requirements contained in §
91.56:
            1.   A fee determined by the town’s fee schedule;
            2.   A written narrative of the development plan;
            3.   The impact on the environment (trees, run-off, waste disposal,
emissions, historic property impact and impact on other properties);
            4.   Documentation that collocation on existing towers or
structures within a radius of 10,500 feet was attempted by the applicant, but
found unfeasible with reasons noted;
            5.   A site plan and landscaping plan at a scale of one inch equals
40 feet by a state registered surveyor, showing location of all existing
property lines and improvements within a 500-foot radius and any proposed
tower, antenna, accessory structure or equipment, and how the applicant
proposes to screen any service structure, accessory structure or equipment from
view. Indigenous vegetation shall be used in all plantings. A permanent
maintenance plan shall be provided for the plantings. In addition, the site
plan must include a list of adjacent property owners and their addresses,
zoning district and the names of developer(s) and owner(s);
            6.   Copies of all county, state and federal permits with the
application building permit where prior local approval is not required;
            7.   Elevation drawings of all towers, antennas and accessory
structures and equipment, indicating height, design and colors;
            8.   Certification that all antenna and equipment comply with FCC
regulations for radio frequency radiation and all towers, antennas and
equipment meet Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) aviation and navigation
requirements;
            9.   A copy of approved National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(NEPA) compliance report for all towers, antennas, accessory structures or
equipment proposed for the proposed site;
            10.   Documentation signed and sealed by a North Carolina
registered engineer that indicates any proposed tower meets the structural
requirements of the Standard Building Code and the collocation requirements of
this subchapter;
            11.   Proof of liability insurance or financial ability to respond
to claims up to $1,000,000 (escalated each year by the Consumer Price Index) in
the aggregate which may arise from operation of the facility during its life,
at no cost to the town, in a form approved by the Town Attorney; and
            12.   Appropriate approvals, certifications or recommendations
required to allow review of approval criteria such as sight line analysis,
aerial photographs or other such tests as determined by the Administrator.
         (b)   Approval schedule. Within 150 calendar days of the receipt of an
application under this section, the Town Board upon recommendation of the
Planning Board will:
            1.   Complete the process for reviewing the application for
conformity with this Unified Development Ordinance (see division (C)(4) below).
An application under this section is deemed to be complete unless the UDO
Administrator notifies the applicant in writing, within 30 calendar days of
submission of the application of the specific deficiencies in the application
which, if cured, would make the application complete. Upon receipt of a timely
written notice that an application is deficient, an applicant may take 30
calendar days from receiving such notice to cure the specific deficiencies. If
the applicant cures the deficiencies within 30 calendar days, the application
shall be reviewed and processed within 150 calendar days from the initial date
the application was received. If the applicant requires a period of time beyond
30 calendar days to cure the specific deficiencies, the 150 calendar days
deadline for review shall be extended by the same period of time;
            2.   Make a final decision to approve or disapprove the
application;
            3.   Advise the applicant in writing of its final decision. If the
Town Board denies an application, it must provide written justification of the
denial; and
            4.   Failure to issue a written decision within 150 calendar days
shall constitute an approval of the application.
      (4)   Application review.
         (a)   The review of an application for the placement or construction
of a new wireless support structure or substantial modification of a wireless
support structure shall only address public safety, land development or zoning
issues. In reviewing an application, the town may not require information on or
evaluate an applicant’s business decisions about its designed service, customer
demand for its service, or quality of its service to or from a particular area
or site. The town may not require information that concerns the specific need
for the wireless support structure, including if the service to be provided
from the wireless support structure is to add additional wireless coverage or
additional wireless capacity. The town may not require proprietary,
confidential or other business information to justify the need for the new
wireless support structure, including propagation maps and telecommunication
traffic studies. In reviewing an application, the town may review the
following:
            1.   Applicable public safety, land use or zoning issues addressed
in its adopted regulations, including aesthetics, landscaping, land-use based
location priorities, structural design, setbacks and fall zones;
            2.   Information or materials directly related to an identified
public safety, land development or zoning issue including evidence that no
existing or previously approved wireless support structure can reasonably be
used for the wireless facility placement instead of the construction of a new
wireless support structure, that residential, historic and designated scenic
areas cannot be served from outside the area, or that the proposed height of a
new wireless support structure or initial wireless facility placement or a
proposed height increase of a substantially modified wireless support
structure, or replacement wireless support structure is necessary to provide
the applicant’s designed service; and
            3.   The town may require applicants for new wireless facilities to
evaluate the reasonable feasibility of collocating new antennas and equipment
on an existing wireless support structure or structures within the applicant’s
search ring. Collocation on an existing wireless support structure is not
reasonably feasible if collocation is technically or commercially impractical
or the owner of the existing wireless support structure is unwilling to enter
into a contract for such use at fair market value. The town may require
information necessary to determine whether collocation on existing wireless
support structures is reasonably feasible.
         (b)   The town may engage a third-party consultant for technical
consultation and review of applications. The fee imposed by the town for the
review of an application may not be used for either of the following:
            1.   Travel expenses incurred in a third-party’s review of an
application; and
            2.   Reimbursement for a consultant or other third party based on a
contingent fee basis or results-based arrangement.
   (E)   Small wireless facilities.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   The Town of Carolina Shores shall not adopt or enforce any
ordinance, rule, regulation, or resolution that regulates the design,
engineering, construction, installation, or operation of any small wireless
facility located in an interior structure or upon the site of any stadium or
athletic facility. This section does not apply to a stadium or athletic
facility owned or otherwise controlled by the town. This section does not
prohibit the enforcement of applicable codes.
         (b)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall amend, modify, or
otherwise affect any easement between private parties. Any and all rights for
the use of a right-of-way are subject to the rights granted pursuant to an
easement between private parties.
         (c)   Except as provided in this chapter or otherwise specifically
authorized by the General Statutes, the Town of Carolina Shores may not adopt
or enforce any regulation on the placement or operation of communications
facilities in the rights-of-way of state-maintained highways or town rights-of-
way by a provider authorized by state law to operate in the rights-of-way of
state-maintained highways or town rights-of-way and may not regulate any
communications services.
         (d)   Except as provided in this chapter or specifically authorized by
the General Statutes, the town may not impose or collect any tax, fee, or
charge to provide a communications service over a communications facility in
the right-of-way.
         (e)   The approval of the installation, placement, maintenance, or
operation of a small wireless facility pursuant to this chapter does not
authorize the provision of any communications services or the installation,
placement, maintenance, or operation of any communications facility, including
a wireline backhaul facility, other than a small wireless facility, in the
right-of-way.
      (2)   Permitting process.
         (a)   Small wireless facilities that meet the height requirements of §
91.91(C)(3) shall only be subject to administrative review and approval under
section (2)(b) of this section if they are collocated: (i) in a town right-of-
way within any zoning district; or (ii) outside of town rights-of-way on
property other than single-family residential property.
         (b)   The Town of Carolina Shores shall require an applicant to obtain
a permit to collocate a small wireless facility. The town shall receive
applications for, process, and issue such permits subject to the following
requirements:
            1.   The town may not, directly or indirectly, require an applicant
to perform services unrelated to the collocation for which approval is sought.
For purposes of this subdivision, "services unrelated to the collocation,"
includes in-kind contributions to the town such as the reservation of fiber,
conduit, or pole space for the town.
            2.   The wireless provider completes an application as specified in
form and content by the town. A wireless provider shall not be required to
provide more information to obtain a permit than communications service
providers that are not wireless providers.
            3.   A permit application shall be deemed complete unless the town
provides notice otherwise in writing to the applicant within 30 days of
submission or within some other mutually agreed upon time frame. The notice
shall identify the deficiencies in the application which, if cured, would make
the application complete. The application shall be deemed complete on
resubmission if the additional materials cure the deficiencies identified.
            4.   The permit application shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the town fails to
approve or deny the application within 45 days from the time the application is
deemed complete or a mutually agreed upon time frame between the town and the
applicant.
            5.   The town may deny an application only on the basis that it
does not meet any of the following: (i) the town's applicable codes, (ii) local
code provisions or regulations that concern public safety, objective design
standards for decorative utility poles, town utility poles, or reasonable and
nondiscriminatory stealth and concealment requirements, including screening or
landscaping for ground-mounted equipment; or (iii) public safety and reasonable
spacing requirements concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment in a
right-of-way. The town must (i) document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions on which the denial was based and (ii) send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the town denies an
application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the town and
resubmit the application within 30 days of the denial without paying an
additional application fee. The town shall approve or deny the revised
application within 30 days of the date on which the application was
resubmitted. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the prior denial.
            6.   An application must include an attestation that the small
wireless facilities shall be collocated on the utility pole, town utility pole,
or wireless support structure and that the small wireless facilities shall be
activated for use by wireless services provider to provide service no later
than one year from the permit issuance date, unless the town and the wireless
provider agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by a lack of
commercial power at the site.
            7.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities at
multiple locations within the jurisdiction of the town shall be allowed at the
applicant discretion to file a consolidated application for no more than 25
separate facilities and receive a permit for the collocation of all the small
wireless facilities meeting the requirements of this section. The town may
remove small wireless facility collocations from a consolidated application and
treat separately small wireless facility collocations (i) for which incomplete
information has been provided or (ii) that are denied. The town may issue a
separate permit for each collocation that is approved.
            8.   The permit shall specify that collocation of the small
wireless facility shall commence within six months of approval and shall be
activated for use no later than one year from the permit issuance date, unless
the town and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by a lack of commercial power at the site.
         (c)   The town may charge an application fee that shall not exceed the
lesser of (i) the actual, direct, and reasonable costs to process and review
applications for collocated small wireless facilities; (ii) the amount charged
by the town for permitting of any similar activity, or (iii) $100 per facility
for the first five small wireless facilities addressed in an application, plus
$50 for each additional small wireless facility addressed in the application.
In any dispute concerning the appropriateness of a fee, the town has the burden
of proving that the fee meets the requirements of this section.
         (d)   The town may impose a technical consulting fee for each
application, not to exceed $500, to offset the cost of reviewing and processing
applications required by this section. The fee must be based on the actual,
direct, and reasonable administrative costs incurred for the review,
processing, and approval of an application. The town may engage an outside
consultant for technical consultation and the review of an application. The fee
imposed by the town for the review of the application shall not be used for
either of the following:
            1.   Travel expenses incurred in the review of a collocation
application by an outside consultant or other third party.
            2.   Direct payment or reimbursement for an outside consultant or
other third party based on a contingent fee basis or results-based arrangement.
            3.   In any dispute concerning the appropriateness of a fee, the
town has the burden of proving that the fee meets the requirements of this
section.
         (e)   The town shall require a wireless services provider to remove an
abandoned wireless facility within 180 days of abandonment. Should the wireless
services provider fail to timely remove the abandoned wireless facility, the
town shall cause such wireless facility to be removed and may recover the
actual cost of such removal, including legal fees, if any, from the wireless
services provider. For purposes of this section, a wireless facility shall be
deemed abandoned at the earlier of the date that the wireless services provider
indicates that it is abandoning such facility or the date that is 180 days
after the date that such wireless facility ceases to transmit a signal, unless
the wireless services provider gives the town reasonable evidence that it is
diligently working to place such wireless facility back in service.
         (f)   The town shall not require an application or permit or charge
fees for (i) routine maintenance; (ii) the replacement of small wireless
facilities with small wireless facilities that are the same size or smaller; or
(iii) installation, placement, maintenance, or replacement of micro wireless
facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing utility poles
or town utility poles in compliance with applicable codes by or for a
communications service provider authorized to occupy the town rights-of-way and
who is remitting taxes under G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(4c) or G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(6).
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a town from requiring a
work permit for work that involves excavation, affects traffic patterns, or
obstructs vehicular traffic in the town right-of-way.
      (3)   Use of town public right-of-way.
         (a)   The town shall not enter into an exclusive arrangement with any
person for use of town rights-of-way for the construction, operation,
marketing, or maintenance of wireless facilities or wireless support structures
or the collocation of small wireless facilities.
         (b)   Subject to the requirements of §
91.91(E)(2), a wireless provider may collocate small wireless facilities along,
across, upon, or under any town right-of-way. Subject to the requirements of
this section, a wireless provider may place, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace associated utility poles, town utility poles, conduit, cable, or
related appurtenances and facilities along, across, upon, and under any town
right-of-way. The placement, maintenance, modification, operation, or
replacement of utility poles and town utility poles associated with the
collocation of small wireless facilities, along, across, upon, or under any
town right-of-way shall be subject only to review or approval under section (E)
(2)(b) if the wireless provider meets all the following requirements:
            1.   Each new utility pole and each modified or replacement utility
pole or town utility pole installed in the right-of-way shall not exceed 50
feet above ground level.
            2.   Each new small wireless facility in the right-of-way shall not
extend more than ten feet above the utility pole, town utility pole, or
wireless support structure on which it is collocated.
         (c)   In no instance in an area zoned single-family residential where
the existing utilities are installed underground may a utility pole, town
utility pole, or wireless support structure exceed 40 feet above ground level,
unless the town grants a waiver or variance approving a taller utility pole,
town utility pole, or wireless support structure.
         (d)   The town may assess a right-of-way charge under this section for
use or occupation of the right-of-way by a wireless provider. The right-of-way
charge shall not exceed $50 per year.
         (e)   Nothing in this section is intended to authorize a person to
place, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a privately-owned utility pole or
wireless support structure or to collocate small wireless facilities on a
privately owned utility pole, a privately owned wireless support structure, or
other private property without the consent of the property owner.
         (f)   The town shall require a wireless provider to repair all damage
to a town right-of-way directly caused by the activities of the wireless
provider, while occupying, installing, repairing, or maintaining wireless
facilities, wireless support structures, town utility poles, or utility poles
and to return the right-of-way to its functional equivalence before the damage.
If the wireless provider fails to make the repairs required by the town within
a reasonable time after written notice, the town may undertake those repairs
and charge the applicable party the reasonable and documented cost of the
repairs. The town shall maintain an action to recover the costs of the repairs.
         (g)   A wireless provider may apply to the town to place utility poles
in the town rights-of-way, or to replace or modify utility poles or town
utility poles in the public rights-of-way, to support the collocation of small
wireless facilities. The town shall accept and process the application in
accordance with the provisions of division (E)(2)(b), applicable codes, and
other local codes governing the placement of utility poles or town utility
poles in the town rights-of-way, including provisions or regulations that
concern public safety, objective design standards for decorative utility poles
or town utility poles, or reasonable and nondiscriminatory stealth and
concealment requirements, including those relating to screening or landscaping,
or public safety and reasonable spacing requirements. The application may be
submitted in conjunction with the associated small wireless facility
application.
      (4)   Access to town utility poles to install small wireless facilities.
         (a)   The town may not enter into an exclusive arrangement with any
person for the right to collocate small wireless facilities on town utility
poles. The town shall allow any wireless provider to collocate small wireless
facilities on its town utility poles at just, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory
rates, terms, and conditions, but in no instance may the rate exceed $50 per
town utility pole per year.
         (b)   A request to collocate under this section may be denied only if
there is insufficient capacity or for reasons of safety, reliability, and
generally applicable engineering principles, and those limitations cannot be
remedied by rearranging, expanding, or otherwise reengineering the facilities
at the reasonable and actual cost of the town to be reimbursed by the wireless
provider. In granting a request under this section, the town shall require the
requesting entity to comply with applicable safety requirements, including the
National Electrical Safety Code and the applicable rules and regulations issued
by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
         (c)   Following receipt of the first request from a wireless provider
to collocate on a town utility pole, the town shall, within 60 days, establish
the rates, terms, and conditions for the use of or attachment to the town
utility poles that it owns or controls. Upon request, a party shall state in
writing its objections to any proposed rate, terms, and conditions of the other
party.
         (d)   In any controversy concerning the appropriateness of a rate for
a collocation attachment to a town utility pole, the town has the burden of
proving that the rates are reasonably related to the actual, direct, and
reasonable costs incurred for use of space on the pole for such period.
         (e)   The town shall provide a good-faith estimate for any make-ready
work necessary to enable the town utility pole to support the requested
collocation, including pole replacement if necessary, within 60 days after
receipt of a complete application. Make-ready work, including any pole
replacement, shall be completed within 60 days of written acceptance of the
good faith estimate by the applicant. For purposes of this section, the term
"make-ready work" means any modification or replacement of a town utility pole
necessary for the town utility pole to support a small wireless facility in
compliance with applicable safety requirements, including the National
Electrical Safety Code, that is performed in preparation for a collocation
installation.
         (f)   The town shall not require more make-ready work than that
required to meet applicable codes or industry standards. Fees for make-ready
work shall not include costs related to preexisting or prior damage or
noncompliance. Fees for make-ready work, including any pole replacement, shall
not exceed actual costs or the amount charged to other communications service
providers for similar work and shall not include any consultant fees or
expenses.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to an entity
whose poles, ducts, and conduits are subject to regulation under Section 224 of
the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. § 151, et seq., as amended, or under
G.S. § 62-350.
         (h)   This section shall not apply to an excluded entity. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to affect the authority of an excluded entity
to deny, limit, restrict, or determine the rates, fees, terms, and conditions
for the use of or attachment to its utility poles, town utility poles, or
wireless support structures by a wireless provider. This section shall not be
construed to alter or affect the provisions of G.S. § 62-350, and the rates,
terms, or conditions for the use of poles, ducts, or conduits by communications
service providers, as defined in G.S. § 62-350, are governed solely by G.S. §
62-350. For purposes of this section, "excluded entity" means (i) a town that
owns or operates a public enterprise pursuant to this chapter consisting of an
electric power generation, transmission, or distribution system or (ii) an
electric membership corporation organized under G.S. Chapter 117 that owns or
controls poles, ducts, or conduits, but which is exempt from regulation under
Section 224 of the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. § 151 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.12; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.92 CEMETERIES.
   As a condition for the approval and continuance of a special use permit for
a cemetery the following shall apply.
   (A)   Public- or privately-owned perpetual care cemeteries which the Board
of Commissioners finds in conformance with the following minimum requirements.
      (1)   A cemetery shall contain not less than two acres of land in
contiguous ownership.
      (2)   There shall be only one entrance from the cemetery onto a public
road. Such entrance shall be located at least 500 feet from the nearest
intersection of another public road.
      (3)   A perimeter buffer strip shall be maintained around the entire
cemetery to a depth of 20 feet from the cemetery property line. There shall be
no burial sites provided in this buffer strip. The required buffer strip shall
be suitably planted so as to effectively screen such cemetery and burial
activities therein from view from outside the cemetery so far as practicable.
      (4)   A chapel, mortuary, undertaking establishment or crematorium may be
developed within the cemetery as an accessory use to said cemetery provided
that the land upon which it is built shall be and shall remain in the same
ownership as the cemetery, although the establishment itself may be conducted
by persons other than the owners of the cemetery. Such establishments, if
developed, may be within the required perimeter buffer strip of the cemetery,
but shall be no closer than 150 feet to any residential dwelling on land
adjoining the cemetery.
      (5)   Access to such establishment shall be from within the cemetery, by
means of the single entrance to the cemetery. Such an establishment shall be
contained within a single building of not more than one story nor more than 20
feet in height. Only one such building shall be permitted in any cemetery. The
design and plans for such building shall be subject to approval of the Board of
Adjustment as a condition of the special use permit and shall be submitted as a
part of the application.
      (6)   The proposed cemetery shall not be in conflict with any element of
the Comprehensive Plan or any other plan of the town as approved by the Town
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Application for approval of this special use shall include a plan of
the proposed cemetery drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equal to 100
feet. Such plan shall show the boundaries of the cemetery, all roads within 500
feet of the cemetery boundaries, all structures within 100 feet of the cemetery
boundaries, all property lines connecting to the cemetery boundary, the names
of the owners of the proposed cemetery, the names of all property owners of
land adjacent to the cemetery with identification as to their respective
property location, a north arrow and the scale of the drawing. The plan shall
also show within the cemetery boundaries the entrance, the required perimeter
buffer strip, the number and location of all lots and burial sites, all
proposed roads, parking areas, easements and drainage structures, and any other
proposed roads, parking areas, easements and drainage structures, and any other
proposed development which shall be a change from the original topography,
including grading and landscaping. Refer to §
91.227 for cemetery subdivision lot size exemptions.
   (C)   The granting of a special use permit for this purpose shall be special
upon subsequent compliance by the cemetery owners with all state statutes
governing the establishment and operation of a perpetual care cemetery.
   (D)   Any cemeteries existing on September 6, 2012, may be continued without
a permit.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.13; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.93 CHILD CARE CENTER.
   The following specific provisions shall be met as minimum standards prior to
the approval of any child care center as a special use in a residentially zoned
area:
   (A)   Minimum lot size: 20,000 square feet;
   (B)   Rear yard setback minimum: 35 feet;
   (C)   Side yard setback minimum: 20 feet;
   (D)   Corner lot setback minimum from interior lot lines: 20 feet;
   (E)   Minimum distance to another child care center as defined herein,
whether conforming or nonconforming, shall be 2,500 feet;
   (F)   Minimum paved off-street parking spaces: two plus one for each
employee;
   (G)   Minimum paved off-street loading and unloading area: in addition to
the off-street parking area, there shall be sufficient paved driveway to
accommodate at least two autos at one time for the purpose of loading and
unloading passengers;
   (H)   Two hundred square feet of play area shall be provided for each child
and said aggregate play space shall be enclosed with at least a four-foot high
fence; and
   (I)   Specified plan for ingress and egress.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.14; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.94 CREMATORIUM.
   Crematoriums are permitted subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   All facilities must comply with state licensing requirements.
   (B)   There shall be no emission of particulate matter or noticeable odors.
   (C)   No new crematorium operation may be located within 1,500 feet from an
existing crematory facility.
   (D)   The loading/unloading zone for the facility must be enclosed or
screened from view with fencing.
   (E)   All windows with an open view of the crematory processing equipment
must be screened from view.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.15; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.95 PLACE OF ASSEMBLY.
   In the O/I Zoning District, places of assembly shall be allowed as a special
use provided the aggregate enclosed building area and/or open assembly area has
an occupancy of 500 people or less.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.16; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.96 BONA FIDE FARM.
   Bona fide farms in the town extraterritorial jurisdiction are exempt from
the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance as directed by G.S. 160D-
903.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.17; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.97 GOLF AND DRIVING RANGE, PAR 3.
   (A)   Lighting, if any, shall be designed and installed so that it is
directed away from the roadway and adjacent residentially-zoned or used
properties and does not interfere with the safe use of public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Adequate assurance shall be provided, by means of separation, fencing
or other means, that the operation of such facility shall not constitute a
danger to person or property.
   (C)   Signs shall be permitted as provided in §§
91.190 through
91.201.
   (D)   Hours of operation shall be specified by the special use permit.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.18; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.98 GOLF COURSE.
   Golf courses may include clubhouses, swimming pool(s) and tennis courts as
accessory facilities. Clubhouses may not include a restaurant without a special
use permit for the restaurant. The restaurant must be intended to primarily
serve patrons of the golf course.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.19; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.99 AUCTION CONDUCTED ENTIRELY WITHIN A BUILDING.
   Auctions conducted entirely within a building shall be permitted in
accordance with §
91.74, subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Operating hours are 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and
2:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (B)   All applicable requirements of §§
91.120 through
91.129,
91.140 through
91.150,
91.160 through
91.164,
91.170 through
91.177,
91.180,
91.181,
91.190 through
91.201 and
91.210 through
91.229, Performance Standards must be complied with.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.20; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.100 AUCTION, ESTATE.
   Estate auctions shall be permitted in accordance with §
91.74, subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Estate sales must be conducted between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.,
excluding Sundays and all town recognized holidays.
   (B)   Estate sales may not exceed two consecutive calendar days.
   (C)   All sale items must have been located 30 calendar days prior to the
auction on the property on which the auction is conducted.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.21; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.101 GRANNY PODS.
   Granny pods shall be permitted as an accessory use in accordance with the
Table of Permitted Uses, subject to the following standards:
   (A)   Structures must be transportable residential units assembled off-site
and built to the standards of the State Building Code. It must be no more than
300 gross square feet and must not be placed on a permanent foundation.
   (B)   The accessory structure must comply with all setbacks and any maximum
floor area ratio limits that apply to the primary residential structure. The
structure shall be connected to any public water, sewer, and electric utilities
serving the property or water and/or sewer systems approved by Brunswick
County. Only one accessory temporary family care structure is allowed per lot.
No signage regarding the presence of the structure is allowed. The structure
must be removed within 60 days after care-giving on the site ceases.
   (C)   A zoning permit is required to be obtained prior to installation.
Evidence of compliance may be required as part of the permitting and annual
permit renewal, including an annual renewal of the doctor’s certification of
impairment. The town may make periodic inspections at times convenient to the
caregiver to assure on-going compliance.
   (D)   The caregiver must be at least 18 years old and must be a first or
second degree relative of the impaired person (a spouse, parent, grandparent,
child, grandchild, aunt, uncle, nephew, or niece). A legal guardian of the
impaired person also qualifies.
   (E)   In the O/I District, granny pods shall only be permitted for single-
family residentially used property.
(Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.102 HOMESTAY LODGING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Homestay lodging uses shall only be allowed in lawfully permitted dwelling
units serving as the principal residence of a host. Only a property owner may
register a homestay lodging; however, the principal resident may act as a host.
Homestay lodging uses do not include bed and breakfast lodging uses.
   (A)   Registration.
      (1)   A property owner shall register each establishment annually with
the Town of Carolina Shores.
      (2)   Registration is restricted to a property owner, who shall provide
proof of possession of the registered premises, and to natural persons only. A
host may be the property owner or another principal resident.
      (3)   A registration number shall be assigned to each registered
establishment, which shall be clearly noted along with any advertisement for
lodging.
      (4)   Active registrations shall not expire, provided that a property
owner shall renew registration on an annual basis. If a property owner fails to
renew a registration, the registration shall be considered terminated by the
property owner.
      (5)   Registration does not vest the premises or property owner with any
rights. Registration terminates upon transfer of the property to another owner.
      (6)   Any bedroom rentals for periods of 29 days or less not properly
registered as a bed and breakfast shall register as a homestay.
   (B)   The maximum number of guest rooms allowed shall be one less than the
total number of bedrooms in the dwelling unit, not to exceed three guest rooms.
   (C)   In the R-15, R-12, R-8, R-6, MFH I, and MFH II Districts:
      (1)   The host shall issue a parking placard to each guest parking on
site.
      (2)   Guest parking shall be restricted to behind the plane of the front
façade of the home, except on an existing improved parking surface existing at
the time of the adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   No more than three motor vehicles owned or operated by patrons
shall be parked onsite at any time.
   (D)   The use provisions of this section are not subject to variance by the
Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Any use for which there are three final determinations of violations
of the town code and/or criminal convictions related to the parcel (on,
adjacent to, or within the property) by a property owner, tenant, guest, host,
lessee, or individual otherwise related directly to the property within any
rolling 365-day period, shall constitute a violation of the terms of
registration and shall terminate registration. For any registration that is
terminated due to code/criminal violations, a property owner shall be
ineligible for registration for a period of three years.
   (F)   Any property owner registering a homestay lodging, as well as any
host, shall: (1) be responsible for ensuring compliance with all federal,
state, and local laws, including but not limited to tax code, building code,
fire code, and environmental health regulations for the level of occupancy of
the homestay; and (2) not allow any party, event, classes, weddings,
receptions, or other large gatherings on the premises.
   (G)   Property owners registering a homestay are responsible for keeping in
full force and effect during all times the unit is used as a homestay lodging
commercial general liability insurance with a total limit of not less than
$500,000 each occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
   (H)   Homestay lodging registrants and hosts shall maintain records
demonstrating that the home is a host's primary residence, the dates of rental
for the previous 365 days, and the number of renters. Such records shall be
made available, upon request, to the town.
   (I)   The definition of "family" and the restriction of a minimum 30 day
rental period in the MFH districts shall not apply to properly registered
homestay lodging.
   (J)   Written notice shall be conspicuously posted inside each short-term
lodging unit setting forth the following information:
      (1)   The name and telephone number of the host.
      (2)   The address of the lodging, the maximum number of overnight
occupants, and the day(s) established for garbage collection.
      (3)   The non-emergency phone number of the Brunswick County Sheriff's
Department.
      (4)   The annual registration documentation.
      (5)   That parties, events, classes, weddings, receptions, and other
large gatherings are not permitted.
   (K)   All homestay lodging shall comply with the requirements of this UDO.
   (L)   Inspection of homestay lodging shall occur only when there is
reasonable cause, for fire prevention code, or if the rental is located in a
blighted area.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.103 TINY HOUSES.
   Tiny houses not exceeding 699 square feet in size, including container
homes, shall be allowed in accordance with §
91.74, subject to the following:
   (A)   A tiny house must comply with the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (B)   A tiny house must be situated on a permanent foundation with secure
wind-resistant tie-downs and connected to public water, sewer, and electric
utilities.
   (C)   If the tiny house is constructed on a travel chassis with wheels, the
wheels must be removed for permanent location on a foundation.
   (D)   A tiny house must comply with all UDO requirements for the zoning
district in which it is located.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.104 WHOLE-HOUSE LODGING/HOMESTAY LODGING IN THE O/I & NB DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Registration.
      (1)   Property owners shall obtain a zoning certificate and register each
establishment annually with the Town of Carolina Shores.
      (2)   A registration number shall be assigned to each registered
establishment, which shall be clearly noted along with any advertisement for
lodging.
   (B)   Any use for which there are three final determinations of violations
of the town code and/or criminal convictions related to the parcel (on,
adjacent to, or within the property) by a property owner, tenant, guest, host,
lessee, or individual otherwise related directly to the property within any
rolling 365-day period, shall constitute a violation of the terms of
registration and shall terminate registration. For any registration that is
terminated due to code/criminal violations, a property owner shall be
ineligible for registration for a period of three years.
   (C)   A property owner, as well as any host/operator, shall: (1) be
responsible for ensuring compliance with all federal, state, and local laws,
including but not limited to tax code, building code, fire code, and
environmental health regulations for the level of occupancy of the short-term
lodging; and (2) not allow any party, event, classes, weddings, receptions, or
other large gatherings on the premises.
   (D)   Property owners shall be responsible for keeping in full force and
effect during all times the unit is used as a short-term lodging or homestay
commercial general liability insurance with a total limit of not less than
$500,000 each occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
   (E)   Written notice shall be conspicuously posted inside each short-term
lodging unit setting forth the following information:
      (1)   The name and telephone number of the host/operator.
      (2)   The address of the lodging, the maximum number of overnight
occupants, and the day(s) established for garbage collection.
      (3)   The non-emergency phone number of the Brunswick County Sheriff's
Department.
      (4)   The annual registration documentation.
      (5)   That parties, events, classes, weddings, receptions, and other
large gatherings are not permitted.
   (F)   The host/operator shall ensure that all refuse is stored in
appropriate containers and set out for collection on the proper collection day
(s) and the carts removed from the street or alley on the scheduled collection
day.
   (G)   Preparation and service of food by host/operators for guests shall be
prohibited. No cooking shall be permitted in individual bedrooms.
   (H)   Short-term lodging uses shall be prohibited on the ground floor of
street-facing facades, excluding alleys, except within any properly permitted
single-family, duplex, triplex, quadraplex, and multi-family structures
existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.105—91.109 RESERVED.
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 91.110 INTENT.
   Upon the effective date of this Unified Development Ordinance, and any
amendment thereto, preexisting structures or lots of record and existing and
lawful uses of any building or land which do not meet the minimum requirements
of this Unified Development Ordinance for the district in which they are
located or which would be prohibited as new development in the district in
which they are located shall be considered as nonconforming. It is the intent
of this subchapter to permit these nonconforming uses to continue until they
are removed, discontinued or destroyed, but not to encourage such continued
use, and to prohibit the expansion of any nonconformance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.1; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.111 NONCONFORMING USES.
   A nonconforming use is a use of land, buildings or structures that was
lawfully established prior to the effective date of this Unified Development
Ordinance, or any amendment thereto, but which does not conform to the
regulations for the zoning classification in which it is located. Nonconforming
uses may be continued subject to the limitations noted herein. For purposes of
determining whether a right to continue a nonconforming situation is lost
pursuant to this section, all buildings, activities and operations maintained
on a lot are generally to be considered as a whole. For example, the failure to
rent one apartment in a nonconforming apartment building or one space in a
nonconforming manufactured home park for 90 days shall not result in a loss of
the right to rent that apartment or space thereafter so long as the apartment
building or manufactured home park as a whole is maintained in conjunction with
a conforming use, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for the required period
shall terminate the right to maintain it thereafter.
   (A)   Expansions: no nonconforming use shall be extended, expanded, enlarged
or moved to occupy a different or greater area of land, buildings or structures
than was occupied by such use at the time it became nonconforming; provided,
however, a nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building
which were specifically designed and arranged for such use at the time it
became nonconforming.
   (B)   No building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use shall be
enlarged, extended, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless such
building or structure is thereafter devoted to a conforming use; provided,
however, such building or structure may be enlarged or extended upon prior
authorization from the Board of Adjustment, which authorization shall not be
granted unless the Board of Adjustment makes each of the following findings of
fact.
      (1)   The proposed enlargement or extension shall be minor or
insignificant in relation to the existing building or structure.
      (2)   The proposed enlargement or extension shall not increase the
intensity of the nonconforming use, which is to say, it will not result in an
increase in dwelling units for a residential use nor in gross floor area for a
nonresidential use.
      (3)   The proposed enlargement or extension is designed so that it will
not render the use of the property any less compatible than it is in its
existing circumstances.
      (4)   The authorization of such proposed enlargement or extension is not
otherwise contrary to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (C)   (1)   A nonconforming use of a structure may not be changed to another
nonconforming use unless such change is authorized by the Board of Adjustment.
In order to authorize a change in nonconforming use, the Board of Adjustment
shall consider the relative impacts of the existing nonconforming use and the
proposed nonconforming use with regard to traffic, noise, pollution, visual
appearance and compatibility with the neighborhood, and shall make each of the
following findings.
         (a)   The proposed use is expected to result in impacts which are less
than those associated with the existing use.
         (b)   The proposed use will be more compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood than is the existing use.
         (c)   Approval of the change in nonconforming use serves the public
health, safety and general welfare.
         (d)   Failure to approve the change in nonconforming use would result
in a hardship to the owner of the property on which the nonconforming use is
situated.
      (2)   An existing nonconforming use shall be discontinued within 60 days
of the date of approval of a change in nonconforming use. Subsequent to that
time, such existing use shall become unlawful.
   (D)   Where a nonconforming use ceases for 90 consecutive days, then the use
shall not be re-established or resumed, and any subsequent use of the land or
structure shall conform to the requirements of this Unified Development
Ordinance. Vacancy and non-use of the building or structure, regardless of the
intent of the owner, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision.
   (E)   When a structure or operation made nonconforming by this Unified
Development Ordinance is vacant or discontinued on September 6, 2012, the 90-
day period for purposes of this section begins to run on September 6, 2012.
   (F)   Where a building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use is
damaged to the extent of 50% or more of its current value, such building or
structure, if restored, shall thereafter be devoted to conforming uses.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.2; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.112 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   A nonconforming structure is a building or other structure which lawfully
existed prior to the effective date of this Unified Development Ordinance, or
an amendment thereto, and which no longer could be built under the terms of
this Unified Development Ordinance, as amended, by reason of restrictions on
area, footprint, open space, building height, setbacks, lot width or other
requirements concerning the structure.
   (A)   A nonconforming structure devoted to a use permitted in the zoning
classification in which it is located may continue to be used only in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Normal repair and maintenance may be performed to allow the
continuation of nonconforming structures.
   (C)   Except as provided in divisions (D) and (E) below, a nonconforming
structure shall not undergo a change of use, renovation or expansion.
   (D)   A nonconforming structure may undergo a change or use or renovation
without having to bring the structure into conformity with the requirements of
these regulations, provided that:
      (1)   The change in use or renovation does not increase the floor area of
the structure;
      (2)   The change in use is to a permitted use within the district; and
      (3)   The number of parking spaces provided for the use is in conformity
with the requirements of these regulations.
   (E)   A nonconforming structure may be expanded, without bringing the
nonconforming structure into conformity with these regulations, only if the
part of the structure to be expanded and the area of the lot into which the
expansion is taking place are both brought into conformity with the
requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance.
   (F)   A nonconforming structure shall not be moved unless it thereafter
conforms to the standards of the zoning classification in which it is located.
   (G)   Where a nonconforming structure is damaged by fire, flood, wind or
other act of God, and such damage does not exceed 50% of the current assessed
taxable value of the structure, it may be restored to its original dimensions
and conditions as long as a building permit for the restoration is issued
within 12 months of the date of the damage.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.113 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any lot of record of structure existing at the time of the adoption of this
Unified Development Ordinance, which has dimensions which do not meet the
requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance, shall be subject to the
following exceptions and modifications.
   (A)   Adjoining lots. When two or more adjoining lots with continuous
frontage are in one ownership at any time after the adoption of this Unified
Development Ordinance, and such lots individually are less than the minimum
square footage and/or have less than the minimum width required in the district
in which they are located, such group of lots shall be considered as a single
lot or several lots of minimum permitted area and width for the district in
which they are located.
   (B)   Lot not meeting minimum lot size requirements. Except as set forth in
the above, in any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, any
lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of these regulations that
has dimensions that are less than required by these regulations may be used as
a building site for a single-family dwelling providing the lot area and width
are not less than 80% of the requirements in the district. If the lot is
smaller or narrower, a variance may be requested of the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Yard requirements modified. Except as set forth in division (A) above,
where a lot has width or depth less than that required in the district in which
it is located, the UDO Administrator shall be authorized to reduce the yard
requirements for such lot by not more than 20%. Additional or other forms of
yard modification may be permitted with a variance granted by the Board of
Adjustment.
   (D)   Enlargement of nonconforming structures. Any building which is
nonconforming solely because of its encroachment in a required yard area may be
extended in any lawful manner that does not further encroach in that yard.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.4; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.114 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of land, buildings, structures or
other development of land devoted to a nonconforming use or having
nonconforming structures are permitted, provided the cost of such repairs and
maintenance within any 12- month period does not exceed 10% of the current
assessed taxable value of the land, buildings, structure or other development
of land. Any structure or other development of land devoted to a nonconforming
use that is declared unsafe by the UDO Administrator because of lack of repairs
and maintenance shall not be restored, repaired, reconstructed or used except
in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter. Any structure or other
development of land devoted to a nonconforming use that is declared unsafe by
the UDO Administrator, but not because of lack of repairs and maintenance, may
be repaired and restored subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.5; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.115 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Any PRDs and PUDs approved prior to the adoption of this Unified Development
Ordinance will be considered conforming as long as they remain fully compliant
with all terms and conditions under which they were approved. The Zoning Map
includes the Planned Unit Development (PUD) Zoning District. This designation
is limited to the PUD zoning approved under the Town Zoning Ordinance which
existed prior to the adoption of this Unified Development Ordinance. No
additional PUD zoning will be considered or approved.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.6; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.116 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Signs which are made nonconforming by this Unified Development Ordinance
shall be removed within five years of the date of adoption of this Unified
Development Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.7; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§§ 91.117—91.119 RESERVED.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
PART I: OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 91.120 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be provided at the time of the erection of any building, or at
the time any principal building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding
dwelling units, guest rooms, seats or floor area, permanent off-street parking
space in the amount specified by this section. Such parking space may be
provided in a parking garage or properly graded open space that complies with
the standards for parking established in this section.
   (A)   Certification of minimum parking requirements. Each application for a
certificate of zoning compliance submitted to the UDO Administrator as provided
for in §
91.63(G) of this Unified Development Ordinance shall include information as to
the location and dimensions of off-street parking and the means of entrance and
exit to the space. This information shall be in sufficient detail to enable the
UDO Administrator to determine whether or not the requirements of this section
are met.
   (B)   Combination of required parking space. The required parking space for
any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot but the required space
assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use. However, one-half of
the parking space required for houses of worship, theaters or recreational uses
whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use
which will be closed at night or on Sunday mornings until 12:00 noon.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.1; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.121 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Mixed use. In the case of mixed use developments, the total required
off-street parking or loading space shall be the sum of the requirements for
the various uses computed separately except for as provided below.
      (1)   Up to one-half of the parking spaces required for one use in a
mixed use development may be used to satisfy the parking requirements for a
second use within the proposed development, subject to certification by the UDO
Administrator that such joint usage parking complies with the following
provisions:
         (a)   The peak usage of the parking facility by one use will be at
night or on Sundays and the peak usage of the parking facility by the second
use will be at other times as provided in § 91.120(B); and
         (b)   The other uses are ancillary to the primary use, such as
restaurants and meeting rooms included in hotels and motels.
      (2)   Minimum parking requirements for a mixed use development may be
reduced by the UDO Administrator if a traffic/parking study is submitted to
demonstrate and the UDO Administrator finds that:
         (a)   Sidewalks, bicycle facilities, transit service and transit
amenities are in place such that together with the number of parking spaces
that are proposed, transportation is adequately served. Parking spaces required
by this section may be placed within any public or private street right-of-way
in accordance with the approved conditional use permit, if there is sufficient
on-street public parking available within a 400-foot radius of the mixed-use
development to meet the requirement for the mixed-use development.
         (b)   Reduction of the minimum parking requirements will not be
injurious to the general health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Phased developments. Each individual phase of a multi-phase
development shall meet all applicable parking standards established in this
section including shared parking facilities prior to initiation of the next
phase.
   (C)   Spaces provided off-site.
      (1)   For any residential use, a parking facility may be located within
400 feet of the structure for which the spaces are required. The title to the
parking facility must run with and/or be appurtenant to title to the principal
residential structure. Parking space arrangement shall ensure that there will
be no encroachment upon or over rights-of-way, sidewalks or property lines.
Public streets, alleys, walkways or public easements will not be used for or
included in the requirements for parking, nor will they be obstructed or
blocked or altered in any way from their normal use or intended use.
      (2)   Property disposal which results in a reduction of parking spaces
below those required in this section shall be a violation subject to the
provisions of §
91.14.
   (D)   Maneuvering room. Maneuvering space for off-street parking shall be
located on the lot upon which parking is provided and not on public right-of-
way.
   (E)   Parking space requirements.
      (1)   The parking surface on all on-site and off-site parking lot(s),
with the exception of detached single-family or duplex housing units, shall be
dust free, all weather material (i.e., concrete, asphalt, paving stones) or
permeable all weather surfacing. The paving surface shall be marked with the
necessary striping delineating the parking stalls and locations of handicapped
parking spaces.
      (2)   Residential parking areas or driveways shall be properly delineated
and surfaced with concrete, asphalt, coquina or permeable material.
   (F)   Access. Access to public thoroughfares shall be from a driveway and
not directly from a parking space. Ingress and egress shall be by a forward
motion of the vehicle.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.2; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.122 REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOTS.
   Where parking lots for more than five cars are permitted or required or
where any principal building enlargement is 20% or greater of its existing size
as specified by § 91.60(B), the following provisions shall be complied with.
   (A)   The parking spaces may be used only for parking, but shall not
preclude occasional use as convention and festival exhibits or parking of
rental vehicles. Parking spaces may not be used for loading, sales, dead
storage, repair work, dismantling or servicing.
   (B)   All entrances, exits, barricades at sidewalks and drainage plans shall
be approved and constructed before occupancy.
   (C)   Only one entrance and one exit sign no larger than two square feet
prescribing parking regulations may be erected at each entrance or exit.
   (D)   Required off-street parking areas including drives and accessways
shall be surfaced with an all-weather surface material.
   (E)   Where parking or loading areas are provided adjacent to a public
street, ingress and egress thereto shall be made only through driveways not
exceeding 25 feet in width at the curb line of said street, except where the
UDO Administrator finds that a greater width is necessary to accommodate the
vehicles customarily using the driveway.
   (F)   Where two or more driveways are located on the same lot, the minimum
distance between such drives shall be 30 feet or one-third of the lot frontage,
whichever is greater.
   (G)   No driveway shall be located closer than 25 feet to any street
intersection.
   (H)   Refer to §§
91.140 through
91.150 for landscaping requirements.
   (I)   Refer to §§
91.170 through
91.177 for lighting requirements.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.3; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.123 MANUFACTURED HOME AND TRAILER PARKING AND STORING.
   It shall be unlawful to park or otherwise store for any purpose whatsoever
any manufactured home or trailer within any zoning district except as follows.
   (A)   A storing permit for any manufactured home to be parked or stored for
longer than seven days shall be obtained from the UDO Administrator.
   (B)   A manufactured home shall not be parked and used other than in the MFH
I or MFH II Districts, or unless obtaining a temporary certificate of zoning
compliance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.4; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.124 VEHICLE STORAGE.
   (A)   Residential districts. Vehicles intended for personal use may be
parked or stored on property zoned for residential use. Commercial trucks, vans
or trailers driven home must be parked in a garage or carport or in the
driveway and never on the street. Inoperative vehicles, including trucks, vans
or trailers, may not be stored in a residential district.
   (B)   Business and industrial districts. Customer and employee parking is
permitted along with the parking and storing of governmental or commercial
vehicles, in any business or industrial district. Inoperative vehicles shall
only be permitted to be parked or stored while undergoing repairs at a
commercial garage or automobile service station or if stored in an approved
junk or wrecking yard. Overnight parking or storage of tractor trailers in
commercial districts is strictly limited to vehicles associated with the
commercial establishment operating on the premises.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.5; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.125 VEHICLE STACKING AREAS.
   (A)   Vehicle stacking areas. The vehicle stacking standards of this section
shall apply unless otherwise expressly approved by the UDO Administrator.
Additional stacking spaces may be required by the UDO Administrator where trip
generation rates suggest that additional spaces will be needed.
   (B)   Minimum number of spaces. Off-street stacking spaces shall be provided
as follows:
Activity Type Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
Activity Type               Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
Automated teller machine    3                       Teller
(ATM)
Bank teller lane            4                       Teller or window
Car wash bay, full-service  6                       Bay
Car wash bay, self-service  3                       Bay
Dry cleaning/ laundry drive 3                       Cleaner/laundry window
through
Gasoline pump island        3                       Pump island
Gate, unstaffed             2                       Gate
Gatehouse, staffed          4                       Gatehouse
Pharmacy pickup             3                       Pharmacy window
Restaurant, drive-through   6                       Order box
Restaurant, drive-through   4                       Between order box and pick-
                                                    up window
Valet parking               3                       Valet stand
                            Determined by the UDO Administrator in
Other                       consideration of an approved study prepared by a
                            registered engineer with expertise in
                            transportation engineering
 
   (C)   Design and layout of stacking spaces. Required stacking spaces shall
be subject to the following design and layout standards:
      (1)   Size. Stacking spaces shall be a minimum of eight feet in width by
25 feet in length.
      (2)   Location. Stacking spaces shall not impede on- or off-site traffic
movements or movements into or out of off-street parking spaces.
      (3)   Design. Stacking spaces shall be separated from other internal
driveways by raised medians if deemed necessary by the UDO Administrator for
traffic movement and safety.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.6; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.126 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Angled parking. Parking stalls intended for the use of standard size
automobiles shall have a minimum size of eight feet by 18 feet for angled
parking. All angled parking stalls shall be provided with the minimum aisle
width specified below depending on their angle of entry. This width is designed
to accommodate traffic flow within the parking area and allow reasonable room
for maneuvering in and out of parking stalls.
      (1)   One-way traffic.
 
Degree of Angle Aisle Width
30 degrees      11 ft.
45 degrees      13 ft.
60 degrees      14 ft.
90 degrees      22 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1162.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1164.jpg]
      (2)   Two-way traffic. Aisle width: 22 feet.
   (B)   Parallel parking. Parallel parking stalls for standard size
automobiles shall have a minimum size of eight feet by 23 feet. All parallel
parking stalls shall have a minimum of ten feet for maneuvering space in one-
way traffic and 20 feet maneuvering space in two-way traffic.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.7; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.127 HANDICAPPED REQUIREMENTS.
   Handicapped parking spaces shall be in accordance with regulations set forth
by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the State Department of
Transportation, the State Division of Motor Vehicles ADA requirements, the
State Building Code and I.C.C. A 117.1.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.8; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.128 LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   No loading spaces shall be located within 30 feet of street
intersections or in any required front, side or rear yard.
      (2)   A minimum setback of 50 feet shall be required where loading docks
face a residential district or a structure with first-floor residential uses,
unless the loading area is completely screened from view with an eight-foot
high masonry wall in accordance with the requirements of § 91.81(F), Fences and
Walls.
      (3)   Loading areas shall be located to provide the most convenient
access to the use being served. Generally, loading areas should be adjacent to
the building.
   (B)   Surfacing. Generally, all open off-street loading areas shall be paved
with an all-weather material such as concrete or asphalt, designed to carry the
heaviest vehicle loads that can commonly be expected. Consideration should be
given to the weight of fire and sanitation equipment as well as delivery
vehicles.
   (C)   Design.
      (1)   Loading berths for office uses shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide
by 35 feet long with a height clearance of 14 feet.
      (2)   All other loading berths shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide and 55
feet long with a height clearance of 14 feet.
   (D)   Utilization. Space allocated to any off-street loading space,
accessory drives or aisles, shall not be used to satisfy the space requirements
for any off-street parking or trash handling facilities.
   (E)   Ingress and egress. Each required off-street loading space shall be
provided with a means of unobstructed ingress and egress to an alley or onto a
public street wide enough to accommodate expected vehicles. Where such ingress
and egress is made into a public street, it shall be through driveways or
openings which meet required standards. Permanent wheel stops or curbing shall
be provided to prevent any vehicle using the loading area from encroachment on
the required front yards, side yards or adjoining property.
   (F)   Number of spaces required.
      (1)   Loading spaces shall be required for uses which normally handle
large quantities of goods, including, but not limited to, industrial plants,
wholesale establishments, warehouses, freight terminals, hospitals and retail
establishments.
      (2)   The numbers in the table below shall serve as a guideline for
determining the number of loading spaces required.
 
Gross Floor Area of Building Number of Spaces
0—5,000                    0
5,001—39,999               1
40,000—99,999              2
100,000—159,999            3
160,000—239,999            4
240,000 and over             5
 
      (3)   The UDO Administrator may require one or more additional loading
areas if the magnitude of the use would anticipate the need for more loading or
standing space.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.9; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.129 PARKING RATIOS.
   The following defines parking ratios for general use classifications as
delineated in the Table of Permitted/Conditional Uses (§
91.74). All uses are not
defined; however, the broad categories listed should correlate with each use
listed within the use table included in §
91.74. If there are questions regarding how a given project should be
classified, the methodology for defining a required parking requirement shall
be determined by the entity designated by this Unified Development Ordinance to
approve a particular development. Parking requirements for all government
sponsored/owned facilities, such as schools, shall be determined on a case-by-
case basis through the development plan approval process.
Classification Off-Street Parking Requirement
Classification                          Off-Street Parking Requirement
Residential
Dwelling, single-family                 2 spaces
Dwelling, manufactured home             2 spaces
Dwelling, multi-family                   
   One bedroom                       1.5 spaces per unit
   Two bedrooms                      1.75 spaces per unit
   Three bedrooms or more            2 spaces per unit
Accessory Uses/Buildings
Accessory business or residential unit  2 spaces per business or residence
(including home occupations)
Accessory buildings                     Same ratio as the principal use
Commercial and Office/Institutional
Retail                                  4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Restaurant                              1 space per 150 square feet enclosed
                                        floor area
Office                                  3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Lodging                                 1 space per room plus 1 space per
                                        employee
Institutional/civic                     1 space per 4 seats or 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet, whichever is greater
Industrial Uses
                                        1 space per 100 square feet of gross
                                        floor area or 1 space per every 3
Adult entertainment establishments      persons of maximum seating capacity,
                                        whichever is greater; plus 1 space per
                                        employee
All other industrial uses               1 space per employee
Recreation/Conservation Uses
                                        1 space per 4 fixed seats;
The most applicable of the following    1 space for each 40 square feet of
standards shall apply for all           floor area available in establishment
recreational uses:                      as a meeting room;
                                        1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Temporary Uses/Structures
To be determined by the UDO Administrator based on the site specific conditions
and principal use.
Agricultural Uses
To be determined by the UDO Administrator based on the site specific
conditions.
 
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.10; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.130—91.139 RESERVED.
PART II: LANDSCAPE, BUFFERING AND SCREENING
§ 91.140 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum requirements to
provide adequate visual buffering and screening of permitted uses, structures,
parking areas and preservation of protected trees. The intention of these
requirements is to satisfy the following objectives:
   (A)   To provide attractive visual buffering between different land uses and
enhance town beautification;
   (B)   To safeguard and enhance property values and to protect public and
private investment by providing standards for the protection of existing
vegetation and root zones and the installation of new vegetation;
   (C)   To mitigate stormwater runoff and erosion, enhance air quality,
conserve energy and aid in abating noise, glare and heat;
   (D)   To establish and maintain the maximum sustainable amount of tree cover
on public and private lands;
   (E)   To maintain trees in a healthy and non-hazardous condition through
good arboricultural practices; and
   (F)   To establish, maintain and protect appropriate diversity in tree
species and age classes to provide a stable and sustainable urban forest.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.11; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.141 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Sections 91.140 through
91.150 shall be applicable when the following situations apply:
      (1)   Multi-family residential development. When ten or more parking
spaces are required for all phases of development excluding all residential
developments which contain solely detached single-family dwelling units;
      (2)   Nonresidential development.
         (a)   New construction. When a permitted use, a use or combination of
uses contained within a special use permit require ten or more parking spaces;
         (b)   Existing development. When there is a change from an existing
use to a new use which requires additional parking and the new use requires ten
or more parking spaces;
         (c)   Expansion of structure. When there is an expansion of an
existing structure by greater than 25% of the gross floor area and that use
requires ten or more parking spaces;
         (d)   Reconstruction of structure. When there is damage or destruction
to an existing structure beyond 50% of its assessed value, the reconstruction
must conform to the new construction standards of this section; and
         (e)   Expansion of parking facility. When there is an expansion of the
parking facility by a minimum of 10% of the parking with a minimum of ten total
spaces.
      (3)   Tree resource management. Tree resource management regulations
shall apply to all protected trees for both new and existing development.
   (B)   This section shall become effective on all applicable conditions that
are met during a five-year cumulative period.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.12; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.142 TREE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT.
   Purpose. The town finds that the natural and beneficial functions of trees
as natural and economic resources are important markers of ecological,
environmental, and economic stability. Pursuant to these findings, the town has
adopted certain regulations for the prudent and thoughtful management of trees
as a resource and has adopted these regulations to promote the public welfare.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 91.143 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Street yard requirements. Street yards are required for all
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential development with eight or
more parking spaces.
      (1)   Minimum standards: the minimum depth of all street yards shall be
seven and one-half feet. For every 50 linear feet of frontage, or fraction
thereof, the street yard shall contain a minimum of three shade trees and six
intermediate shrubs. Newly installed plant material shall be evenly
distributed, where possible. (See Figure 1 below.)
      (2)   If there are existing trees in the proposed street yard area, the
UDO Administrator may grant credit toward meeting the requirement for
preservation of those trees as specified by the tree credits table.
      (3)   No planting material will be allowed which, at planting or at
maturity, will impede vision between a height of three feet and ten feet in the
sight visibility triangle specified by §
91.26. (See Figure 3 below.)
   (B)   Parking facility requirements.
      (1)   Minimum standards: for parking facilities having 15 or more parking
spaces, at least 8% of the gross paved area of the parking facility shall be
landscaped and located in the interior of the facility. (See Figure 4 below.)
      (2)   Planting islands shall include at least one shade tree or one small
tree and six small shrubs. At least 50% of the trees planted shall be shade
trees. (See Figure 5 below.)
      (3)   In support of the above, the following standards shall apply to
interior plantings.
         (a)   All plantings shall be evenly distributed throughout the parking
facility.
         (b)   All interior plantings shall be curbed or otherwise physically
protected.
         (c)   Consecutive parking spaces shall incorporate landscaped islands
no more than 15 spaces apart and at the ends of all parking rows. Landscaped
islands shall contain at least 100 square feet in area and be at least eight
feet in width, measured from back of curb to back or curb. (See Figure 6c
below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1182.jpg]
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.14; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.144 BUFFERYARDS.
   (A)   Type A bufferyard screening. This is a medium density screen intended
to block visual contact between uses and to create special separation. Type A
bufferyard screening shall be required between adjacent nonresidential
properties and multi-family residential property containing ten or more parking
spaces and between commercial and industrial zoning districts or uses.
      (1)   Type A1: minimum of seven and one-half feet wide. For every linear
100 feet, or fraction thereof, the screen shall consist of a combination of a
minimum of two shade trees planted evenly at 40 feet on center, and ten
evergreen intermediate shrubs planted eight feet on center (see Figure 7a
below); or
      (2)   Type A2: minimum of five feet wide. For every 100 feet, or fraction
thereof, the screen shall consist of a combination of at least three shade
trees planted evenly at 40 feet on center, and 15 evergreen intermediate shrubs
six feet on center (see Figure 7b below).
   (B)   Type B bufferyard screening. This is a high density screen intended to
exclude virtually all visual contact between uses and to create a special
separation. Type B bufferyard screening shall be required when a nonresidential
property is adjacent to a single-family residential zoning district or use,
including PRD.
      (1)   Type B1: minimum width of 15 feet, except for the C-2 and C-
3 Districts which shall have a minimum of seven and one-half feet. For every
linear 100 feet, or fraction thereof, the screen shall consist of a combination
of a minimum of three shade trees planted evenly at 30 feet on center, and 15
evergreen large shrubs planted six feet on center (see Figure 8a below); or
      (2)   Type B2: minimum width of ten feet, except for the C-2 and C-
3 Districts which shall have a minimum of five feet. For every linear 100 feet,
or fraction thereof, the screen shall consist of a minimum of four shade trees
planted 30 feet on center, and 20 evergreen large shrubs planted five feet on
center (see Figure 8b below).
   (C)   Type C bufferyard screening.
      (1)   An opaque fence or opaque wall may be used in place of 50% of
required bufferyard screening plants.
      (2)   The design, color and materials of any fence or screen used to meet
bufferyard requirements shall be approved by the UDO Administrator. The side of
the fence facing the affected property owner shall be the finished side of the
fence. All planted screening required to be used in conjunction with a fence
shall be approved by the UDO Administrator and planted on the finished side of
the fence facing the affected use, and the remaining plantings shall be equally
distributed in the bufferyard (see Figure 9a below).
   (D)   Type D bufferyard screening. A combination earthen berm with
vegetation may be used as follows (see Figure 10 below):
      (1)   An earthen berm may be used in conjunction with planted vegetation
made up of small, intermediate and large shrubs, as approved by the UDO
Administrator, provided that the combined height of the berm and planted
vegetation shall be an installed minimum height of six feet.
      (2)   The slope of the berm shall be stabilized with vegetation and no
steeper than 3:1. The height of the berm shall be a maximum of six feet, with a
level or rounded area on top of the berm. The berm shall be constructed of
compacted earth.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1186.jpg]
   (E)   Summary. The following provides a summary of the bufferyard
requirements:
 
Zoning District and/            Commercial      Single-Family Multi-Family
or Use               Industrial (Including O/I) Residential   Residential (8 or
                                                              more parking)
Industrial           N/A        Type A          Type B        Type A
Commercial           Type A     N/A             Type B        Type A
(including O/I)
Single-family        Type B     Type B          N/A           Type A
residential
Multi-family
residential (8 or    Type A     Type A          Type A        N/A
more parking)
 
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.15; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.145 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BUFFERS AND FOR YARDS IN WHICH BUFFERS ARE
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Existing trees and shrubs. Any existing trees within required
bufferyards shall be encouraged to be utilized and supplemented as necessary to
meet bufferyard screening requirements. Existing trees intended to meet
bufferyard screening requirements shall be protected from detrimental actions
such as vehicle or equipment movement, excavating and grading, and installation
of storage or structured elements. Credit for existing trees will be based on
the following:
 
Existing Tree Caliper (inches) Number of Tree Credits Given
2—6                          1
7—12                         2
13—18                        3
19—24                        4
25 or greater                  5
 
   (B)   Uses in the bufferyard. No activities shall occur in the bufferyard
except for maintenance of the bufferyard, required ingress and egress and the
installation and maintenance of water, sewer, electrical and other utility
systems where the installation causes minimal disturbance of existing
vegetation.
   (C)   Uses in the rear yard and side yards abutting a residential use. The
following uses shall be shielded from view from the property line of adjacent
residentially used or zoned property by means of an opaque fence, opaque wall
or solid vegetative buffer:
      (1)   Dumpsters or other trash holding areas;
      (2)   Outside storage areas; and
      (3)   Loading/unloading areas.
   (D)   Encroachment into setbacks.
      (1)   If an existing structure is located within a setback where the
implementation of the streetyard and/or bufferyard requirements are physically
impossible and the encroachment into the yard (streetyard or bufferyard) allows
for a minimum of three feet of planting area, only the required shrubs shall be
planted.
      (2)   If the encroachment into the yard (streetyard or bufferyard) allows
for less than three feet of planting area, no planting shall be required in
that yard:
         (a)   For every yard (streetyard or bufferyard) in which the situation
exists, one additional small tree shall be planted in each streetyard or
bufferyard not encroached upon;
         (b)   For every yard (streetyard or bufferyard) in which the situation
exists, five feet of additional yard width shall be added to a yard (streetyard
or bufferyard); or
         (3)   If all four yards (streetyard and three bufferyards) allow less
than three feet of planting area, no planting shall be required.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.16; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.146 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Plants shall meet the standards for plant quality and size as defined
in the most recent version of the American Standard of Nursery Stock manual.
   (B)   Plants shall be installed per the installation details included in
Appendix B of this Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.17; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.147 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All existing vegetation that is used to meet landscaping requirements,
all required plants and all required berms shall be maintained by the owner of
the property on a continuing basis for the life of the development.
   (B)   Opaque fences or opaque walls shall be maintained, cleaned and
repaired by the owner of the property on a continuing basis for the life of the
development. Such fencing shall be kept free of litter and advertising. Opaque
fences or walls may be subject to periodic inspection by the UDO Administrator.
   (C)   A new certificate of occupancy/building permit or a complaint will
result in an inspection for compliance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.18; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.148 LANDSCAPE PLAN.
   Landscape plans shall be submitted with minor or major site plans, special
use permit application and/or request for a zoning certificate of compliance,
if §
91.141 applies. These plans shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Date of plan preparation;
   (B)   Project name and description of land use;
   (C)   Project owner and mailing address; and
   (D)   A tree removal permit.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.19; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.149 TREE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   Tree preservation is a pre-planning activity and will be thoroughly
considered prior to development of engineering and/or architectural plans and
prior to initiation of construction projects. Protected trees shall be guarded
during development against the following:
   (A)   Unnecessary cutting, breaking or skinning of roots;
   (B)   Skinning and bruising of bark;
   (C)   Excessive vehicular and foot traffic within drip lines;
   (D)   Parking vehicles within drip lines;
   (E)   During the land clearing and construction stage of development, the
developer shall erect and maintain protective barriers (to the Building
Inspector’s specifications consistent with good management practices) around
all trees or groups of trees to be protected. The developer shall not allow the
movement of equipment or the storage of equipment, materials, debris or fill to
be placed within the protective barrier;
   (F)   During the construction stage of development, the developer shall not
allow the cleaning of equipment or material within the drip line of any tree or
groups of trees to be protected. Neither shall the developer allow the disposal
of waste materials such as paint, oil solvents, asphalt, concrete, mortar and
so on within the drip line of any tree or groups of trees;
   (G)   No attachments or wires other than those of a protective nature shall
be attached to any tree;
   (H)   Soil disturbances within the drip line of a protected tree shall be
limited to two inches in depth removed or two inches in depth added. Any soil
added under the drip line of the tree shall be a loamy soil mix to ensure
minimal compaction;
   (I)   During land clearing and construction stage of development, the UDO
Administrator shall periodically inspect the site to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section; and
   (J)   Tree location and replacement activity permitted or required under
this section shall be done in accordance with standard forestry practices and
procedures, and all such plantings shall be reasonably maintained and attended
to promote successful establishment thereof.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.20; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.150 RECOMMENDED PLANT LIST.
   The Building Inspector shall maintain a recommended plant list and shall
make such list available for use in the preparation of landscape plans to meet
vegetation requirements. Note: native vegetation is preferred. Plants not
listed may be accepted by the UDO Administrator if they meet the standards
defined by this section. It is highly recommended that landscape plans be
prepared by or in consultation with a registered landscape architect or
qualified landscape design professional.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.21; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.151—91.159 RESERVED.
PART III: BUILDING FACADE DESIGN
§ 91.160 INTENT.
   In order to present an attractive face for the town, buildings along
roadways should enhance the image of the town. The emphasis should be on
architectural detail and human-scale design.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.22; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.161 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this section shall apply in the following circumstances:
   (A)   Construction of any new use classified as commercial, office/
institutional or multi-family;
   (B)   Construction of any new use classified as industrial when the building
facade is located within 100 feet of a public roadway;
   (C)   Expansion or modification of an existing commercial or office/
institutional use that increase the total enclosed floor area by at least 50%
or 5,000 square feet, whichever is greater; and
   (D)   Where compliance with these standards is explicitly required in other
portions of this Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.23; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.162 EXEMPT.
   Communication towers shall be exempt from these requirements.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.24; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.163 STANDARDS.
   (A)   All facades that are visible from a public roadway or an abutting a
residential district or use shall be constructed of one or a combination of the
following materials: concrete aggregate, stucco, brick, stone, glass or wood,
faced concrete block. Artificial materials which closely resemble these
materials shall also be allowed.
   (B)   Long continuous building walls are discouraged and no single facade
extending unbroken more than 35 feet in a horizontal plane may be visible from
a public roadway. Compliance may be obtained through one of the following:
      (1)   The use of projections or recesses (articulation). When used, each
projection or recess shall have a projection (or depth) dimension of no less
than 18 inches and a width of no less than 36 inches; or
      (2)   The use of columns or other architectural detail to provide visual
interest. Where used, columns should be harmonious with the general design of
the structure.
   (C)   At least 25% of the first floor of the street facade must be
transparent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1210.jpg]
   (D)   The use of pitched roofs and roof overhangs shall be required within
1,500 feet of a residentially zoned or used development (as measured from
either side of the subject property). Recommended roofing materials include
slate shingles, asphalt and fiberglass shingles, metal standing seam or tiles.
Partial (occupying less than three sides) mansard roofs are discouraged.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.25; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.164 ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE.
   Alternative compliance may be obtained provided the design satisfies the
intent of this section. In such cases, the UDO Administrator shall have the
authority to approve the following:
   (A)   Reduced transparency requirements; or
   (B)   Materials of construction not listed, provided the materials used are
implemented in a manner that enhances the surrounding area.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.26; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.165—91.169 RESERVED.
PART IV: OUTDOOR LIGHTING
§ 91.170 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Nonresidential and multi-family buildings and projects, including
outparcels, shall be designed to provide safe, convenient and efficient
lighting for pedestrians and vehicles. Lighting shall be designed in a
consistent and coordinated manner for the entire site. The lighting and
lighting fixtures shall be integrated and designed so as to enhance the visual
impact of the project on the community and/or should be designed to blend into
the surrounding landscape. Lighting design and installation shall ensure that
lighting accomplishes on-site lighting needs without intrusion on adjoining
properties or shining directly into the public right-of-way.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.27; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.171 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All nonresidential and multi-family development; and
   (B)   All residential subdivision development approved following the date of
adoption of this Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.28; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.172 EXEMPT.
   (A)   The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this
section: temporary outdoor lights used exclusively for temporary events,
recreational activities, concerts, plays or other outdoor events that are open
to the public, provided that the event or function meets all other applicable
Unified Development Ordinance requirements. Such lighting shall be located at
least 50 feet from any adjoining residential district or use and designed to
the maximum extent possible to avoid intrusion on adjoining property.
   (B)   Outdoor lighting exempt from this section shall only be illuminated
while the activity takes place and during high traffic periods immediately
before and after the event.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.29; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.173 LIGHTING PLAN.
   A site lighting plan shall be submitted with all major site plans. Minor and
major subdivisions require a lighting plan approved by the Brunswick Electric
Membership Corporation (BEMC).
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.30; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.174 SITE LIGHTING DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Lighting shall be used to provide safety while accenting key architectural
elements and to emphasize landscape features. Light fixtures shall be designed
as an integral design element that complements the design of the project. This
can be accomplished through style, material or color. All lighting fixtures
designed or placed so as to illuminate any portion of a site shall meet the
following requirements.
   (A)   Fixture (luminaire).
      (1)   The light source shall be completely concealed behind an opaque
surface and recessed within an opaque housing and shall not be visible from or
shine at eye level into any street right-of-way or adjoining properties.
Overhead lighting fixtures shall be designed to prevent light from emitting
upwards towards the sky.
      (2)   Under canopy lighting fixtures should be completely recessed within
the canopy.
   (B)   Fixture height. Lighting fixtures shall be a maximum of 40 feet in
height within the parking lot and shall be a maximum of 15 feet in height
within non-vehicular pedestrian areas. All light fixtures located within 50
feet of any residential use or residential property boundary shall not exceed
15 feet in height.
   (C)   Light source (lamp).
      (1)   Incandescent, florescent, metal halide or color corrected high-
pressure sodium are preferred. The UDO Administrator shall have the authority
to approve other lamp types (including light emitting diodes (LEDs) and fiber
optics) provided the color emitted is similar to the preferred types. Non-color
corrected high pressure sodium lamps are prohibited.
      (2)   The same light source type should be used for the same or similar
types of lighting on any one site throughout any development.
   (D)   Mounting. Fixtures shall be mounted in such a manner that the cone of
light is contained on-site and does not cross any property line of the site.
   (E)   Limit lighting to periods of activity. The use of sensor technologies,
timers or other means to activate lighting during times when it will be needed
may be required by the UDO Administrator to conserve energy, provide safety and
promote compatibility between different land uses.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.31; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.175 ILLUMINATION LEVELS.
   (A)   All site lighting shall be designed so that the level of illumination
as measured in footcandles (fc) at any one point meets the standards in the
table below with minimum and maximum levels measured on the pavement within the
lighted area and average level (the overall generalized ambient light level),
measured as a not-to-exceed value calculated using only the area of the site
intended to receive illumination.
LIGHT LEVEL (footcandles)
Type of Lighting Minimum Average Maximum
LIGHT LEVEL (footcandles)
Type of Lighting                           Minimum Average Maximum
Architectural lighting                     0.0     1.0     5.0
Canopy area lighting                       2.0     10.0    15.0
Multi-family parking lot                   0.2     1.0     8.0
Nonresidential and multi-family entrances  1.0     5.0     15.0
Nonresidential parking lot                 0.2     1.5     10.0
Storage area (security lighting)           0.2     1.0     10.0
Vehicle sales and display                  0.2     3.0     15.0
Walkways, landscape or decorative lighting 0.2     0.8     5.0
 
   (B)   The maximum level of illumination at the outer perimeter of the site
or project is intended to be 0.2 footcandles or less, but in no instance
greater than 0.5 footcandles, when abutting a residential zoning district; and,
0.5 footcandles or less, but in no instance greater than 1.0 footcandles, when
abutting all other districts or streets.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.32; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.176 EXCESSIVE ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Lighting within any lot that unnecessarily illuminates and
substantially interferes with the use or enjoyment of any other property is
prohibited. Lighting unnecessarily illuminates another lot if it exceeds the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Lighting shall not be oriented so as to direct glare or excessive
illumination onto streets in a manner that may distract or interfere with the
vision of drivers on such streets.
   (C)   Fixtures used to accent architectural features, landscaping or art
shall be located, aimed or shielded to minimize light spill into the night sky.
   (D)   Blinking or flashing lights shall be prohibited unless the lights are
required as a safety feature (i.e., beacons on towers) or shall be permitted as
part of a sign in accordance with §§
91.190 through
91.201, Signs.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.33; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.177 NONCONFORMING LIGHTING.
   Lighting fixtures existing as of September 6, 2012, may remain, and shall be
considered nonconforming structures. Modifications, replacement or expansion
shall conform to the standards of this Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.34; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.178—91.179 RESERVED.
PART V: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT STANDARDS
§ 91.180 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all development where noted.
   (A)   Structures exceeding 30 feet or three stories in height shall provide
at least three means of fire apparatus access.
   (B)   Structures or portions of structures exceeding 30 feet in height above
the lowest level of Fire Department vehicle access shall be provided with
approved fire apparatus access roads capable of accommodating Fire Department
aerial apparatus. Overhead utility and power lines shall not be located within
the aerial fire apparatus access roadway.
   (C)   Structures having a gross enclosed floor area of over 62,000 square
feet shall be provided with two separate and approved fire apparatus access
roads. However, when equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler
system, projects may be allowed to have a gross floor area of up to 124,000
square feet and provide access through one approved access road.
   (D)   Fire apparatus access roads shall have a minimum unobstructed width of
26 feet in the immediate vicinity of any building or portion of building more
than 30 feet in height.
   (E)   At least one of the required access routes shall be located at least
15 feet, but no more than 30 feet from the structure and shall be parallel to
one entire side of the building.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.35; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.181 STATE CODES.
   The following codes relating to emergency management services shall be
adopted and made applicable to all development activities:
   (A)   North Carolina State Fire Code (current edition), Table B105.1 Minimum
Required Fire Flow and Flow Duration for Buildings, as amended;
   (B)   North Carolina State Fire Code (current edition), Table C105.1 Number
and Distribution of Fire Hydrants, as amended; and
   (C)   North Carolina State Fire Code (current edition), Appendix D, Fire
Apparatus Access Roads, as amended.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.36; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.182—91.189 RESERVED.
PART VI: SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 91.190 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide fair and comprehensive
regulations that will:
   (A)   Provide a pleasing overall environmental setting and good community
appearance which is deemed vital to tourism and to the continued economic
attractiveness of the town;
   (B)   Allow signs appropriate to the planned character of each zoning
district;
   (C)   Promote highway safety, the welfare and comfort of travelers, the
convenience of the public and the enjoyment of public travel;
   (D)   Restrict private signs which overload the public’s capacity to receive
information and increase the probability of accidents by distracting attention
or obstructing vision;
   (E)   Protect property values within the town and its extraterritorial area;
and
   (F)   Reduce conflict among private signs and between private and public
information systems.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.37; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.191 ZONING CERTIFICATE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Zoning certificate required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
move or replace any sign or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining
a zoning certificate from the UDO Administrator as required herein unless the
sign is temporary and exempt per the requirements of this Unified Development
Ordinance.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, changing or replacing the permanent copy
on an existing lawful sign shall not require a zoning certificate, provided the
copy change does not change the nature of the sign such as to render the sign
in violation of this Unified Development Ordinance.
   (B)   Application and issuance of zoning certificate. Applications for
zoning certificates for all signs shall contain or have attached to it the
following information which shall be submitted to the UDO Administrator, along
with the payment of a fee as set forth in the town’s budget or as established
by resolution of the Board of Commissioners filed in the office of the Town
Clerk (see § 91.34):
      (1)   The street and number of the structure where the sign is to be
erected, and the tax parcel number for the zoning lot on which the sign is to
be located;
      (2)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant/owner of
the property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed, the owner of the
sign, and/or the licensed contractor erecting or affixing the sign;
      (3)   Any other information as the UDO Administrator may reasonably
require to determine full compliance with this and other applicable codes;
      (4)   Two copies of scaled drawings of the plans and specifications of
the sign to be erected or affixed. All plans and specifications must meet the
State Building Code and any other applicable laws and regulations;
      (5)   Each application for a zoning certificate to erect a sign must be
accompanied by a drawing to scale showing:
         (a)   A site plan of the property involved, showing accurate placement
of the proposed sign including, but not limited to, setbacks and all structures
including existing signs;
         (b)   The design of the sign, including dimensions;
         (c)   Method of attachment or support;
         (d)   Source of illumination;
         (e)   The relationship to any building or structure to which it is or
is proposed to be installed or affixed;
         (f)   A plot plan to scale indicating the location of the sign
relative to property lines, easements, streets, sidewalks and other signs;
         (g)   For wall signs, dimensions of the building wall on which the
sign is to be affixed and the location and the size of existing wall signs
shall also be included on an elevation drawing; and
      (6)   All signs over six feet in height shall be designed by a state
licensed engineer.
   (C)   Issuance of zoning certificates. Upon the filing of an application for
a zoning certificate, the UDO Administrator shall examine the plans and
specifications if required, and as deemed necessary, may inspect the premises
upon which the sign is proposed to be erected or affixed. If the proposed sign
is in compliance with all the requirements of this Unified Development
Ordinance and other applicable codes, a zoning certificate shall be issued. Any
zoning certificate issued in accordance with this Unified Development Ordinance
shall automatically become void unless the work for which it was issued has
visibly been started within six months of the date of issue or if the work
authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for one year.
   (D)   Zoning certificate exemptions for temporary signs. A zoning
certificate is not required in the following cases.
      (1)   Incidental informational signs. A sign, generally informational,
that has a purpose to the use of the subject property on which it is located,
such as “no parking,” “entrance,” “loading only,” and other similar directives.
      (2)   Residential construction signs. All construction signs shall
require issuance of a building permit for the primary structure prior to
installation. One sign is allowed per residential premises and may not exceed
ten square feet in sign area. The sign shall not be illuminated and may only
appear at the construction site. Removal of the sign is required prior to
issuance of a certificate of compliance or a certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   Non-commercial temporary signs. Temporary signs not exceeding four
square feet in area, and three feet in height if freestanding are allowed in
all residential districts. The number of these signs is limited to one per 100
feet, or fraction thereof, of lot frontage of all immediately adjacent public
streets. In no event shall there be more than three such signs allowed per lot.
The temporary sign may be displayed up to 15 days prior to and/or following the
specific event with which the sign is associated.
      (4)   Developer’s construction signs. A developer may have a 40 square
foot sign per development entrance for a subdivision and/or approved site plan.
      (5)   Commercial/industrial temporary signs. Temporary signs not
exceeding eight square feet in area, and six feet in height if freestanding are
allowed in all commercial/industrial districts. The number of these signs is
limited to one per 100 feet, or fraction thereof, of lot frontage of all
immediately adjacent public streets. In no event shall there be more than three
such signs allowed per lot. The temporary sign may be displayed up to 15 days
prior to and/or following the specific event with which the sign is associated.
      (6)   Fence wraps. Fence wraps displaying signage when affixed to
perimeter fencing at a construction site are exempt until the certificate of
occupancy is issued for the final portion of any construction at that site or
24 months from the time the fence wrap was installed, whichever is shorter. If
construction is not completed at the end of 24 months from the time the fence
wrap was installed, the town may regulate the signage but shall continue to
allow fence wrapping materials to be affixed to the perimeter fencing. No fence
wrap affixed pursuant to this division may display any advertising other than
advertising sponsored by a person directly involved in the construction project
and/or which monetary compensation for the advertisement is not paid or
required.
      (7)   Flags or pennants. Flags or pennants that do not display a logo,
symbol, statement or expression relating to a commercial message as defined
herein.
         (a)   All flags shall be displayed on flagpoles.
         (b)   In nonresidential zoning districts, flagpoles shall not exceed
the maximum height allowed in the zoning district where the flagpole is
located.
         (c)   In residential districts, flagpoles shall not exceed the maximum
height allowed in the zoning district where the flagpole is located or 25 feet
in height, whichever is less.
         (d)   Non-vertical flag poles are prohibited in nonresidential zoning
districts.
         (e)   Each premises or multi-tenant development shall be allowed a
maximum of two flagpoles and a maximum of three flags shall be allowed per
flagpole.
         (f)   All flags and flagpoles shall be maintained in good repair. A
flagpole with broken halyards shall not be used and flags which are torn or
frayed shall not be displayed.
         (g)   Flags mounted directly on a building wall or roof in
nonresidential zoning districts are prohibited. In a residential zoning
district, flags on poles may be mounted on a wall, roof, tree or lawn, provided
they are located within the property boundaries of the premises. Such flags may
include the name of the development and/or developer.
      (h)   Flags or flagpoles shall not be placed in any public right-of-way
or in any manner that obstructs the view of any roadway, thereby creating a
safety hazard.
      (i)   Governmental flags, as defined by G.S. Chapter 144, shall be
displayed in a manner that is consistent with all applicable state and federal
regulations including, but not limited to, the patriotic customs set forth in 4
U.S.C. §§ 5 through 10, as amended.
      (j)   Pennants may be allowed in all commercial districts 30 days before
and 30 days after the initial opening date of a business.
      (k)   Pennants and other temporary signage are allowed for up to 30
consecutive days per calendar year (January through December) for each
nonresidential establishment or premises with multiple nonresidential
establishments in all nonresidential districts. All such temporary signage must
be located within the property boundaries of the subject premises. Prior to
installation, a permit from the town must be obtained for such temporary
signage.
      (l)   Pennants and other temporary signage are allowed for up to 30
consecutive days per calendar year (January through December) in all
residential districts in conjunction with sales or promotional events
associated with the subject property. All such temporary signage must be
located within the property boundaries of the subject premises. Prior to
installation, a permit from the town must be obtained for such temporary
signage. This section is not applicable to real estate signs pertaining to the
sale of individual residential property as outlined in division (D)(3) above.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.38; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.192 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If any application for a zoning certificate is not approved, the UDO
Administrator shall state in writing on the application the cause for such
disapproval, and the owner of record or the owner’s agent or representative
shall be notified of the same within 30 days of the decision, by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
   (B)   The UDO Administrator shall have the authority to order the removal or
modification of any sign which does not meet the requirements of this Unified
Development Ordinance. However, such removal or modification is not required to
abate a hazardous or unsafe condition that poses eminent peril. In such an
instance, the UDO Administrator shall be authorized to act expeditiously to
cause the removal of such a hazard prior to the notification of the owner of
record.
   (C)   No sign shall be erected, placed or maintained in such a manner that
any portion of its surface or its supports will interfere in any way with the
free use of or access to any sidewalk, fire escape, entrance, exit or
standpipe, or so as to obstruct any window so that light or ventilation is
reduced below minimum standards required by any applicable law or building
code.
   (D)   Except where specifically exempted by this Unified Development
Ordinance, all signs, including the supports, frames and embellishments
thereto, shall not be located within any public right-of-way, nor shall any
sign be attached, affixed or painted on any utility pole, light standard,
telephone pole, any tree, rock or other natural object. Any sign that is in
violation of this Unified Development Ordinance is subject to being confiscated
by the UDO Administrator.
   (E)   Refer to §§
91.110 through
91.116 for nonconforming sign requirements.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.39; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.193 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign that revolves, changes copy or is otherwise animated, or that
utilizes movement or apparent movement to attract the attention of the public
is prohibited. This prohibition shall include, but not be limited to,
propellers, discs, banners, pennants, streamers and animated display boards and
flags.
   (B)   All portable signs are prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply to
signs erected by or pursuant to the authorization of the town for events of a
community nature including, but not limited to, emergencies or for other
governmental purposes. This prohibition shall not apply to signs placed upon
vehicles that are operational and which are not parked at one location for over
24 hours.
   (C)   Vehicle sign: any sign that is attached to, painted on or pulled by
any vehicle that is parked on any street or in any parking space for the
primary purpose of advertising.
   (D)   No signs shall overhang or be erected in any public right-of-way.
Traffic regulation, information or warning signs erected by the State
Department of Transportation or signs erected by the town are exempt.
   (E)   Signs which obstruct the view of motor vehicle operators entering a
public roadway from a driveway, street or alley are prohibited.
   (F)   Signs which may be confused with an official traffic sign, signal or
other device or any other official sign or which uses the words “Stop,”
“Warning,” “Danger,” “Caution” or similar words implying the existence of
danger or need for stopping or maneuvering are prohibited.
   (G)   All message board signs are prohibited. This prohibition does not
include menu and sandwich board signs.
   (H)   All off-premises signs are prohibited.
   (I)   All inflatable signs, balloons and similar decorations are prohibited.
   (J)   All roof signs are prohibited.
   (K)   Any illuminated tubing or strings of lights outlining property lines,
festoon lighting, open sales areas, rooflines, doors, windows, edges of walls,
trees or other landscaping are prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply to
temporary holiday lighting; such temporary lighting shall be removed by the
owner or tenant within a reasonable time following the end of the holiday.
   (L)   Any sign that exhibits statements, words or pictures of an indecent,
obscene or pornographic nature is prohibited.
   (M)   Any sign that obstructs or interferes with any window, door, sidewalk
or fire escape is prohibited.
   (N)   All projecting signs are prohibited.
   (O)   All beacons and spotlights are prohibited. Illumination system(s)
shall not contain or utilize any beacon, spot, search or stroboscopic light or
reflector which is visible from any public right-of-way or adjacent property,
nor shall such lights be operated outside, under any circumstances, except by
authorized agencies for emergency services purposes.
   (P)   Flood lights shall not be utilized as a part of a sign illumination
system which are not hooded or shielded so that the light source is not visible
from any public right-of-way or adjacent property nor shall any sign otherwise
reflect or emit a glaring light so as to impair driver vision.
   (Q)   Any sign or sign structure that is structurally unsafe as determined
by the UDO Administrator or Building Inspector is prohibited.
   (R)   Any sign that incorporates a computer screen, electronic images or
electronic characters or flashing lights is prohibited. This prohibition shall
not apply to digital menu receipt boards and signage used to indicate time,
temperature or fuel prices.
   (S)   Stacking signs on top of one another is prohibited. This prohibition
against double decking shall not apply to multi-tenant developments as allowed
by § 91.198(E).
   (T)   All snipe signs are prohibited. Snipe signs are off-premises signs
that are tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued or otherwise attached to trees,
poles, stakes, fences or to other objects.
   (U)   Signs painted on or attached to trees, fences or fence posts and
telephone or utility poles or signs on or attached to rocks or other natural
features are prohibited. Any commercial identification or advertising signs on
benches or refuse containers are also prohibited.
   (V)   Pavement markings are prohibited except those of a customary traffic-
control nature.
   (W)   Any sign located or designated so as to intentionally or effectively
deny an adjoining property owner reasonable visual access to an existing sign
is prohibited.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.40; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.194 SIGN AREA AND LOCATION.
   The following standards shall apply to all signs:
   (A)   Location, height and area.
      (1)   On-premises column signs and ground mounted signs shall be located
at least four feet behind any right-of-way.
      (2)   Computation of height shall be determined by the vertical distance
measured from the highest point of the sign, including any molding, trim,
border or frame above the roadway surface from which the sign is to be viewed.
Signs shall not be placed upon a swale or mound built for the purpose of
altering the height of the sign in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of
this Unified Development Ordinance.
      (3)   Computation of area shall be determined by the area within a
single, continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of characters,
lettering, logos, illustrations or ornamentations, together with any material
or color forming an integral part of the display or to differentiate the sign
from the background to which it is placed. Structural supports bearing no sign
copy are not included in the sign area.
   (B)   V-type signs. V-type signs shall be considered two signs when the
angle between the two surfaces is greater than 30 degrees.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.41; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.195 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   All signs authorized by this Unified Development Ordinance may be
illuminated internally or externally.
      (1)   The intensity of external lighting shall not exceed 20 footcandles.
External lighting directed toward a sign shall be designed and shielded so that
it illuminates only the face of the sign and does not shine into any alley,
road right-of-way or adjacent properties. The sign base and landscaping shall
be designed to shield the light source so that it is not visible from any
right-of-way or adjacent properties.
      (2)   The intensity of the internal lighting of any sign shall not exceed
500 watts per side.
   (B)   All illumination shall provide a continuous, steady white light
source.
   (C)   Colored lighting is prohibited.
   (D)   No illumination shall involve movement or cause the illusion of
movement.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.42; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.196 GENERAL MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   To ensure that signs are erected and maintained in a safe and attractive
condition, the following maintenance requirements shall apply to all signs.
   (A)   Every sign and its supports, braces, guys, anchors and electrical
equipment shall be maintained in safe condition at all times. All signs shall
be kept free from defective or missing parts or peeling paint and shall be
sufficiently stabilized to withstand wind damage.
   (B)   A sign shall have no more than 10% of its surface area covered with
disfigured, cracked, ripped or peeling paint, poster paper or other material
for a period more than 14 successive days.
   (C)   A sign shall not have weeds, vines or other vegetation growing upon
it, or obscuring the view of the sign from the street or right-of-way from
which it is to be viewed, for a period of more than 15 successive days.
   (D)   An illuminated sign shall not have only partial illumination for a
period of more than 15 successive days.
   (E)   Should any sign become insecure or in danger of falling or otherwise
unsafe in the opinion of the UDO Administrator, the owner thereof, or the
person or firm maintaining the sign, shall, upon written notice from the UDO
Administrator, forthwith in the case of immediate danger and in any case within
ten days, secure the sign in a manner to be approved by the UDO Administrator,
in conformity with the provisions of this section or remove the sign. If the
order is not complied with within ten days, the UDO Administrator shall remove
the sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.43; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.197 RECONSTRUCTION OF DAMAGED SIGNS OR SIGN STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any conforming or permitted nonconforming sign or sign structure which
has been damaged may be repaired and used as before, provided all repairs are
initiated within 30 days and completed within 60 days of such damage. However,
if the sign should be declared unsafe by the UDO Administrator, the owner of
the sign or the owner of record of the real property whereon the sign is
located, shall immediately correct all unsafe conditions in a manner
satisfactory to the UDO Administrator.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a nonconforming sign or its
structure shall be considered destroyed, and therefore not repairable, if it
receives damage to the extent of more than 50% of its value as listed for tax
purposes by the Brunswick County Tax Office.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.44; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.198 COMMERCIAL, BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS: ADDITIONAL
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. No merchandise sold at a business may be used as off-site
signage.
   (B)   Materials and design. Materials, colors and shapes of proposed signs
and sign structures shall be compatible with the related buildings. All signs
shall be of sandblasted, routed or carved wood, individual wood letters or of
high-density sign foam that have the appearance of sandblasted or carved wood
and individual letters; stained or colored glass; gold leaf; bronze; or
masonry; unless otherwise provided by this UDO. Sign structures and supports
may be made of stucco, natural and painted wood, brick, stone or other
materials with similar texture and appearance that are considered appropriate
to the town’s appearance. Colors of paints, stains and other finishes or
materials shall be nature-blending, with no more than four colors, excluding
black and white, used on any sign. Fluorescent colors are prohibited. Signs
shall respect the overall town architectural composition of its buildings and
its scale, and not overwhelm the facade. Signs shall not cover up or interrupt
major features of a building. The UDO Administrator shall approve all sign
materials, colors and shapes for compliance with this Unified Development
Ordinance.
   (C)   Ground-mounted sign.
      (1)   Limited to one sign per parcel, multi-tenant development or site
plan. However, where the lot, multi-tenant development or site plan has
frontage on more than one street, with building entrances on each street, one
such sign will be allowed per street frontage.
      (2)   The height of the ground-mounted sign shall not exceed 12 feet,
including its structure or support. The length of the sign shall not exceed ten
feet exclusive of the structural base or planter box. Refer to the figure
below.
      (3)   The sign area shall not exceed 40 square feet. The sign shall be
attached to a structural base or planter box that is at least two feet high. A
structural base shall be at least two feet longer than the dimensions of the
sign; and a plant box shall be at least two feet wider and two feet longer than
the dimensions of the sign. There shall be a maximum of two sides per sign. At
least 30 square feet of landscaped area shall be located at the base of each
ground-mounted sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1258.jpg]
   (D)   Column/pole sign.
      (1)   Limited to one sign per premises; except in the case of multi-
tenant development, then limited to one sign per development; except where the
lot or multi-tenant development has frontage on more than one street, with
building entrances on each street, one such sign will be allowed per street
frontage meeting those requirements.
      (2)   No portion of the sign shall exceed 30 feet in height including its
structure or support. The total length of the sign shall not exceed 12 feet
exclusive of the structural base or planter box.
      (3)   The sign area of the column/pole sign shall not exceed 60 square
feet. Kiosk signs shall not exceed 90 square feet of sign area, including all
sides. The sign shall be attached to a structural base or planter box that is
at least two feet high. The base or planter box shall be at least two feet
wider and two feet longer than the dimensions of the sign. At least 30 square
feet of landscaped area shall be located at the base of each column sign. Refer
to the figure below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1894.png]
   (E)   Multiple tenant buildings. Where a premises or unified development
contains a building with multiple tenants or a shopping center, a maximum of
one ground sign or column/pole sign may be permitted at each principal point of
access to the development from a collector street. This provision is intended
to be limited to one such sign per street frontage. The sign may identify the
building, shopping center or project name; the names of the tenants; or a
combination thereof. All multi-tenant signs must be designed to allow for
changes in tenant occupancy. Unused tenant identification areas shall be filled
with matching decorative panels.
   (F)   Wall and awning signs.
      (1)   Limited to one sign per business. However, where the business has
frontage on more than one street, with building entrances on each street, one
such sign will be allowed per street frontage meeting those requirements.
      (2)   The sign area shall be limited to one square foot of sign area per
linear foot of the owner or tenant’s contiguous exterior wall that is oriented
toward a specific street. If a building does not front on a street, or have a
public entrance, the sign area for the building shall be determined by the UDO
Administrator as if the building had street frontage.
      (3)   The sign shall not extend outward more than six inches from the
building; except hanging signs attached to an awning.
      (4)   No wall sign may extend above the lower eave line of a building
with a pitched roof, except if the roof is a mansard-type roof, in which case
the sign may be attached flat against, but not extend above, the roof.
      (5)   A wall sign may be attached to an overhanging awning.
      (6)   A wall sign may be internally or externally illuminated.
      (7)   No wall sign may extend above parapet walls.
   (G)   Window sign. A window sign, consisting of individual letters applied
directly to the inside surface of the window glass, shall be allowed. The sign
must be in proportion to window size. Window signs shall not exceed 12 square
feet nor fill up more than 20% of the window area, whichever is less.
Lettering, logo, trademark or service mark of the business or establishment
shall not exceed 12 inches in height.
   (H)   Menu and sandwich board signs (non-drive through establishments).
Limited to one sign per business. Signs shall be limited to a maximum height of
four feet and a maximum length of three feet. Folding and double-faced signs
shall be considered one sign. Menu and sandwich board signs shall not be
located on any public right-of-way.
   (I)   Signage standards for specific business operations. Signage standards
for specific business operations are in addition to the general standards
outlined in this section and recognize the different types of traffic, use and
need of signs for the assistance of the traveling public and the prosperity of
business owners and employees through the attraction, retention and furtherance
of commerce throughout the town.
      (1)   Signage for retail and restaurant establishments. Retail
establishments may avail themselves of the maximum signage allowable under this
section and additionally may supplement such maximum via the standards of this
section.
         (a)   Window sign. A window sign, consisting of individual letters or
panels applied directly to the inside surface of the window glass, shall be
allowed. The sign must be in proportion to window size. Window signs shall not
exceed 20 square feet nor fill up more than 50% of the window area, whichever
is less.
         (b)   Sandwich board sign. Limited to one sign per business. Signs
shall be limited to a maximum height of four feet and a maximum length of three
feet. Folding and double-faced signs shall be considered one sign. Sandwich
board signs shall not be located on any public right-of-way, except that where
the edge of the right-of-way is the face of the building and where such
building abuts a public sidewalk, such signage may be allowed as a right-of-way
encroachment.
         (c)   Banners. Limited to one banner per business. Banners shall be
limited to a maximum height of six feet and a maximum length of ten feet.
Banners shall contain the imprint or logo of the business in which the banner
is intended. No additional logos, joint advertising or insignia shall be
permitted.
         (d)   Temporary advertisement flags. Limited to two flags per
business, but no more than six flags at one time per approved major or minor
site plan. Temporary advertisement flags no greater than ten feet in height and
no greater than four feet in width and on a temporary basis shall be permitted
and shall contain the imprint or logo of the business in which the flag is
intended. No additional logos, joint advertising, or insignia shall be
permitted. In a Planned Unit Development, the location of temporary
advertisement flags shall be on the premises of the business or in a common
pedestrian ingress area immediately in-front or adjacent to the primary
pedestrian entrance of the business. In no case shall the temporary
advertisement flag be placed further than ten feet from said primary pedestrian
entrance. No temporary advertisement flag shall be placed in the vehicular zone
including parking areas, driveways, or vehicular ways. Placement of flags shall
not impede ingress/egress to the building.
         (e)   Sale/event/holiday signs. For no more than 30 days annually,
special signage for sales/events/holidays may be placed by a business on
premises with the issuance of a permit. Such signs shall be of one of the
categories above with the following supplemental standard: for each item in
this division (I)(1), the quantity of signs shall double.
         (f)   Daily specials. Daily, restaurants and food service
establishments may be permitted one additional sandwich sign subject to the
standards of division (I)(1)(b). The heading of such sign shall read in
addition to any such text as deemed prudent by the business: “Open for
Business,” “Daily Specials.”
      (2)   Adult entertainment business signs. Adult entertainment business
signage shall be approved through the issuance of the special use permit as
specified in §
91.56.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any regulated
establishment or any other person to erect, construct or maintain any sign for
the regulated establishment other than one primary sign and one secondary sign,
as provided herein.
         (b)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each
such display surface shall:
            1.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
            2.   Not exceed 60 square feet in area; and
            3.   Not exceed ten feet in height or ten feet in length.
         (c)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner, and may contain only:
            1.   The name of the regulated establishment;
            2.   One or more of the following phrases: adult bookstore, adult
movie theater, adult cabaret, adult entertainment or adult model studio; and
            3.   Primary signs for adult movie theaters may contain the
additional phrase, Movie Titles Posted on Premises.
   (J)   Home occupation signs. Home occupation signs shall not exceed two
square feet in area. They shall be either unlighted flush mounted wall signs or
unlighted freestanding signs not exceeding three feet in height.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.45; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.199 SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
   (A)   A ground sign with the name of the subdivision may be located on one
or both sides of each major entrance into the development. Any such sign shall
not be located in any street right-of-way.
   (B)   The height of the ground sign shall not exceed 12 feet, including its
structure or support. The length of the sign shall not exceed ten feet
exclusive of the structural base or planter box. The sign area shall not exceed
60 square feet. The sign shall be attached to a structural base or planter box
that is at least two feet high. A structural base shall be at least two feet
longer than the dimensions of the sign; and a planter box shall be at least two
feet wider and two feet longer than the dimensions of the sign.
   (C)   The sign(s) shall be part of a decorative brick, stone or masonry wall
of similar design compatible with the character of the subdivision or
development.
   (D)   Each sign shall have a minimum of 50 square feet of landscaped area at
the base of the sign including vegetative species planted/maintained as
specified in §§
91.140 through
91.150.
   (E)   The subdivision covenants shall provide that any subdivision sign and
landscaping shall be perpetually maintained by the property owners within the
subdivision.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.46; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.200 UNLAWFUL CUTTING OF TREES.
   All tree removal shall require a permit. The issuance of a permit shall not
prohibit tree removal along a federal highway as permitted by North Carolina
Senate Bill 183.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.47; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.201 EXCLUDED SIGNS.
   (A)   Official signs of a noncommercial nature erected by public utilities
to identify a line or facility location or to advise or warn the public;
   (B)   Signs that are posted upon property to guide or direct traffic, to
identify restricted or public parking areas, or to warn the public against
trespassing or danger from animals and do not contain any commercial
advertising;
   (C)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings or works of
art, so long as such features or works do not contain letters, trademarks,
moving parts or lights;
   (D)   Building markers, historical markers or memorial tablets;
   (E)   Signs associated with the operation of equipment or other functional
elements such as menu boards, automatic teller machines, gas pumps, vending
machines, scoreboards, license plats and similar incidental signs;
   (F)   Address and name signs. Signs or plates on residential structures
giving the name and/or address of the occupant;
   (G)   Displays, including lighting, erected in connection with the
observance of holidays. Such displays shall not be considered as illuminated
signs and they shall be removed within ten days following the holiday;
   (H)   On-premises directional and instructional signs not exceeding four
square feet in area apiece. These signs shall not contain advertising matter;
and
   (I)   Identification signs not exceeding three square feet in area (only one
per premises).
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.48; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.202—91.209 RESERVED.
PART VII: SUBDIVISIONS
§ 91.210 STANDARDS FOR REVIEW.
   Refer to §
91.67 for the subdivision review process. Decision on approval or denial of
preliminary or final plats may be made only on the basis of standards
explicitly set forth in this subchapter. Whenever the Unified Development
Ordinance criteria for decisions requires application of judgment, those
criteria must provide adequate guiding standards for the entity charged with
plat approval.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.49; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.211 SKETCH PLANS.
   A sketch plan is required and shall include the information specified in §
91.62; however, provided that a second alternative sketch plan shall be
provided should any lot on the first sketch plan be located within a Special
Flood Hazard Area. The alternative sketch plan shall depict the same tract of
land with no developable lots in the Special Flood Hazard Area and shall be
considered an alternate sketch plan for approval.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.50; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.212 PRELIMINARY PLATS FOR MINOR AND MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The preliminary plat shall depict or contain the information provided in §
91.214. Preliminary plats shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of not
less than 200 feet to one inch.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.51; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.213 FINAL PLATS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Final plat contents. The final plats shall depict or contain the
information provided in §
91.214. Final plats shall be clearly and legibly drawn by a registered land
surveyor currently licensed in the state by the State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The plat shall also be drawn at a
scale of not less than 200 feet to one inch and shall be drawn on a sheet size
of mylar acceptable to the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County.
   (B)   Certifications. The final plat shall contain the certifications
outlined in §
91.229.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.52; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.214 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS.
   The preliminary and final plats shall depict or contain the information
indicated in the following table. An “X” indicates that the information is
required.
Information Preliminary Plat Final Plat
Information                                                                      Preliminary Final
                                                                                 Plat        Plat
Vicinity map (6 in. wide by 4 in. high) showing location of subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivision, roads and waterways (to include     X           X
streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties). Also include
corporate limits, town boundaries, county lines if on or near subdivision tract.
Boundaries of tract and portion to be subdivided, including total acreage to be
subdivided, distinctly and accurately represented with all bearings and          X           X
distances shown.
Zoning classification of tract and of adjacent properties within 100 feet.       X           X
Proposed street layout and right-of-way width, lot layout and size of each lot.  X           X
Number lots consecutively throughout the subdivision.
Name of proposed subdivision.                                                    X           X
Statement from the County Health Department that a copy of the sketch plan has
been submitted to them, if septic tanks or other on-site water or wastewater
systems are to be used in the subdivision, and/or statement from the County      X           X
Public Utilities that application has been made for public water and/or sewer
permits.
Graphic scale.                                                                   X           X
North arrow and orientation.                                                     X           X
Concurrent with submission of the preliminary plat to the town, the subdivider
shall submit copies of the preliminary plat and any accompanying material to any
other applicable agencies concerned with new development, including, but not     X           X
limited to: District Highway Engineer, County Board of Education, U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, State Department of Natural Resources and Community
Development, for review and recommendation.
List the proposed construction sequence.                                         X           X
Stormwater plan - see §                                                         X           X
91.270 (approval by Town Engineer required before preliminary plat approval).
Proposed and existing topographic contours with intervals no greater than 2-ft.  X           X
intervals.
Survey plat, date(s) survey was conducted and plat prepared, the name, address,  X           X
phone number, registration number and seal of the registered land surveyor.
Names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners, mortgagees, land planners,
architects, landscape architects and professional engineers responsible for the  X           X
subdivision (include registration numbers and seals, where applicable).
Date of the drawing(s) and latest revision date(s).                              X           X
The owner’s name(s) of adjoining properties and zoning district of each parcel X           X
within 100 ft. of the proposed site.
Tabulate bulk requirements and compare to the proposed lot layout, such as
building setbacks, lot area, width and the like for the applicable zoning
district (see §§                                                               X           X
91.70 through
91.74).
State on plans any variance request(s).                                          X           X
Show existing buildings or other structures, watercourses, railroads, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land immediately
adjoining. Show wooded areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes,    X           X
streams or stream beds and any other natural features affecting the site. A
survey is required of all trees with a diameter of 8 in. and greater. See §
91.142 (Tree Resource Management).
The exact location of the flood hazard, floodway and floodway fringe areas from
the community’s FHBM or FIRM maps (FEMA). State the base flood elevation data  X           X
for subdivision.
Show the minimum building setback lines for each lot.                            X           X
Show square footage of each proposed building.                                   X           X
Proposed building height of each structure.                                      X           X
Finished floor elevation of each structure.                                      X           X
Provide grading and landscape plans.                                             X           X
Show dimensions and details of all proposed entrance or subdivision signage.     X           X
Show pump station detail including any tower, if applicable.                     X           X
Show area which will not be disturbed of natural vegetation (percentage of total X           X
site).
Label all buffer areas (percentage of total site).                               X           X
Provide details for all structures and appurtenances.                            X           X
Soil erosion plan.                                                               X           X
Show temporary construction access pad.                                          X
The following data concerning proposed streets:
   Existing and proposed streets on adjoining properties and in the new       X           X
subdivision.
   Rights-of-way, locations and dimensions.                                   X           X
   All existing and proposed grades.                                          X           X
   Curbing pavement widths.                                                   X           X
   Typical street cross-sections.                                             X           X
   Street names.                                                              X           X
   Traffic signage location and detail.                                       X           X
   Design engineering data for all corners and curves.                        X           X
   For office review; a complete site layout, including any future expansion
anticipated; horizontal alignment indicating general curve data on site layout
plan; vertical alignment indicated by percent grade, PI station and vertical
curve length on site plan layout; the District Engineer may require the plotting X           X
of the ground profile and grade line for roads where special conditions or
problems exist; typical section indicating the pavement design and width and the
slopes, widths and details for either the curb and gutter or the shoulder and
ditch proposed; drainage facilities and drainage areas.
   Street maintenance agreement in accordance with §                         X           X
91.223.
   Type of street dedication; all streets must be designated either public or
private. (Where public streets are involved which will be dedicated to the town,
the subdivider must submit all street plans to the Building Inspector for
approval prior to preliminary plat approval.) Where public streets are involved  X           X
which will not be dedicated to a municipality, the subdivider shall submit the
following documents to the State Department of Transportation District Highway
Engineer.
      Where streets are dedicated to the public, but not accepted into a
municipal or the state system before lots are sold, a statement explaining the   X           X
status of the street in accordance with §
91.223.
      If any street is proposed to intersect with a state maintained road, the
subdivider shall apply for driveway approval as required by the State Department X           X
of Transportation, Division of Highways’ Manual on Driveway Regulations.
      Evidence that the subdivider has applied for such approval.          X           X
      Evidence that the subdivider has obtained such approval.             X           X
The location and dimensions of all:
   Utility and other easements.                                               X           X
   Pedestrian and bicycle paths.                                              X           X
   Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use.                       X           X
   Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with the purpose of eaXh          X
stated.
   The future ownership (dedication or reservation for public use to
governmental body, for owners to duly constituted homeowners’ association or foX           X
tenants remaining in subdivider ownership) of recreation and open space lands.
The site/civil plans for utility layouts including:
   Sanitary sewers, invert elevations at manhole (include profiles).          X           X
   Storm sewers, invert elevations at manhole (include profiles).             X           X
   Other drainage facilities, if any.                                         X           X
Water distribution lines.                                                        X           X
Gas lines.                                                                       X           X
Telephone lines.                                                                 X           X
Electric lines.                                                                  X           X
These plans must illustrate connections from the proposed houses to the existing
systems, showing line sizes, the location of fire hydrants, blow offs, manholes, X           X
force mains and gate valves.
Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal systems, if any.           X           X
Provide site calculations including:
   Acreage in buffering/recreation/open space requirements.                   X           X
   Linear feet in streets calculated to acreage.                              X           X
   Net buildable area calculated in acreage.                                  X           X
The name and location of any property or buildings within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.        X           X
Department of Interior’s National Register of Historic Places.
Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
every straight or curved line, street line, lot line, right-of-way line,
easement line and setback line, including dimensions, bearings or deflection
angles, radii, central angles and tangent distance for the centerline of curved  X           X
property lines that is not the boundary line of curved streets. All dimensions
shall be measured to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and all angles to the
nearest minute.
The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control    X           X
points.
A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants. Such restrictions
are mandatory when private recreation areas are established. Must include        X           X
statement of compliance with state, local and federal regulations.
A copy of the erosion control plan submitted to the Wilmington Regional Office   X           X
of NC-DNRCD, when land disturbing activity amounts to one acre or more.
Boundaries of applicable areas of environmental concern in accordance with the
State Guidelines for AECs (15 NCAC 7H) pursuant to the Coastal Area Management   X           X
Act of 1974.
All certifications required in §                                                X           X
91.229.
Any other information considered by either the subdivider, Planning Board or     X           X
Board of Commissioners to be pertinent to the review of the plat.
Improvements guarantees (see §                                                              X
91.67(E)(4)).
Quality assurances signature below.                                              X           X
 
   Quality assurance signature, signifying that all checklist items are
enclosed with the submittal package. Return signed checklist with submittal.
                                                                                                                                     
Owner or Owner’s Authorized Agent                  Date
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.53; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.215 RECOMBINATION OF LAND.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner or
developer at any time before the sale of any lot in the subdivision by a
written instrument to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring
the same to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the same agencies as approved
the final plat. The Board of Commissioners may reject any such instrument which
abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its public uses, improvements,
streets or alleys.
   (C)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved and
recorded and filed in the same manner as a final plat; and being duly recorded
or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and
public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in divisions (A) through (C) above, by all owners of the lots in such
plat joining in the execution of such writing.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.54; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.216 RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
   For any replatting or resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules and
regulations shall apply as prescribed herein for an original subdivision.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.55; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.217 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this section,
which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of this Unified
Development Ordinance and paid for by the subdivider, unless other means of
financing is specifically stated in this Unified Development Ordinance. Land
shall be dedicated and reserved in each subdivision as specified in this
section. Each subdivision shall adhere to the minimum standards of design
established by this section.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.56; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.218 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   Land which has been determined by the Building Inspector on the basis
of engineering or other expert surveys to post an ascertainable danger to life
or property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not be
platted for that purpose, unless and until the subdivider has taken the
necessary measures to correct the conditions and to eliminate the dangers.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the County Health Department, a structural engineer
and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with §§
91.240 through
91.263, Flood Damage Prevention. In areas of flood hazard, identified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map of Brunswick County, North Carolina, as Zones A and
AE, all subdivisions shall be designed to minimize flood damage in accordance
with the provisions of §§
91.240 through
91.263.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.57)
§ 91.219 NAME DUPLICATION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within Brunswick County.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.58; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.220 SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (A)   Facilities. Adequate public facilities shall be provided within the
confines of any subdivision to meet the public demand created by the
subdivision for such facilities as deemed appropriate by the Planning Board and
in compliance with state law. Such facilities include but are not limited to
schools, libraries, parks, recreational facilities, public access facilities to
natural/conservation areas, greenways/multi-modal paths, fire stations, police
stations, emergency management facilities, drainage facilities, solid waste
handling facilities, and other such facilities that are intended for the use
and enjoyment of the public.
   (B)   Blocks and lots.
      (1)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements; needs for vehicular
and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of street traffic; limitations
and opportunities of topography; and convenient access to water areas.
      (2)   Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet or more than 1,320 feet.
      (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth except where single-tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
in non-residential subdivisions, or where abutting a water area.
      (4)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board or UDO Administrator,
a pedestrian crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide
convenient public access to a public area such as a park or school, to a water
area, or to areas such as shopping centers, religious or transportation
facilities.
      (5)   Block numbers shall conform to the Brunswick County 911 number
system, if applicable.
      (6)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the zoning
requirements of the district in which the subdivision is located. Conformance
to zoning requirements means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the
subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of this Unified Development
Ordinance. It is not sufficient for the average lot to meet zoning
requirements.
      (7)   If not provided central water and/or sewer service, lots shall meet
applicable County Health Department requirements.
      (8)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (9)   Flag lots shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (10)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to or radial
to street lines.
   (C)   Cluster development. Every lot shall meet the minimum size as
specified in §
91.75 except lots permitted to utilize the clustering provision. Lots may be
reduced using this provision but any lot area reduced shall be placed in common
area and shall in no way increase the number of lots normally allowed by using
this section. Averaging lot size can be approved on a case by case basis by the
Planning Board where no additional lots are created.
      (1)   Density bonuses shall be allowable when a cluster development
avoids developing in a Special Flood Hazard Area such that density may increase
25% above the density normally allowed in the Unified Development Ordinance.
   (D)   Traditional neighborhood development. Traditional neighborhood
development is encouraged to the extent practicable. Design standards contained
in this Unified Development Ordinance may be replaced when a Traditional
Neighborhood Development is proposed and rezoned to a Planned Residential
Development zoning district provided that the North Carolina Department of
Transportation's Traditional Neighborhood Development standards are used.
   (E)   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Utility easements.
         (a)   Easements for underground or above ground utilities shall be
provided, where necessary, across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines
and shall be at least ten feet wide for water and sanitary sewer lines as
required by the companies involved, for telephone, gas and power lines.
         (b)   The Planning Board will determine whether one easement is
sufficient or whether several easements are necessary to accommodate the
various facilities and the subdivider shall provide the required easements.
      (2)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of such
stream and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose.
      (3)   Greenway/multi-modal path easements. Where a subdivision, as deemed
by the Planning Board, warrants additional off right-of-way paths for walking
and recreation, a greenway and/or multi-modal path easement may be required.
Such easement, where practical, shall run coterminous with drainage easements.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.59; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.221 STORMWATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by evidence satisfactory to the
Planning Board as to the proposed method of providing for stormwater drainage
in accordance with §
91.270.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.60; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.222 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a written statement from
NCDENR, or the UDO Administrator, as the case may be, that any required soil
erosion and sedimentation control plan has been approved in accordance with §
91.280.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.61; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.223 STREETS.
   (A)   Type of street required. All subdivision lots shall abut on a public
or private street. All public streets shall be dedicated to the town, the state
or the public as determined appropriate by the Board of Commissioners. Streets
not dedicated to the town which are not eligible to be put on the State Highway
System because there are too few lots or residences shall only be approved as
private streets.
   (B)   Half-streets. The dedication of half-streets of less than 60 feet at
the perimeter of a new subdivision shall be prohibited. If circumstances render
this impracticable, adequate provision for the concurrent dedication of the
remaining half of the street shall be furnished by the subdivider. Where there
exists a half-street in an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be
provided by the proposed subdivision. However, in circumstances where more than
60 feet of right-of-way is required, a partial width right-of- way, not less
than 60 feet in width, may be dedicated when adjoining undeveloped property is
owned or controlled by the subdivider; provided that the width of the partial
dedication is such as to permit the installation of such facilities as may be
necessary to serve abutting lots. When the adjoining property is subdivided,
the remainder of the full required right-of- way shall be dedicated.
   (C)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins a principal arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide
a marginal access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on
a minor street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where
reverse frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from
having direct access to the principal arterial.
   (D)   Street connectivity requirements.
      (1)   An interconnected street system is necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare in order to ensure that streets will
function in an interdependent manner, to provide adequate access for emergency
and service vehicles, to enhance nonvehicular travel such as pedestrians and
bicycles, and to provide continuous and comprehensible traffic routes. All
proposed new streets shall be platted according to the current Town
Thoroughfare Plan. In areas where such plans have not been completed, the
streets shall be designated and located in relation to existing and proposed
streets, the topography, to natural features such as streams and tree cover, to
public safety and convenience, and to the proposed use of land to be served by
such streets.
      (2)   All proposed streets shall be continuous and connect to existing or
platted streets without offset with the exception of cul-de-sacs as permitted
and except as provided below. Whenever practicable, provisions shall be made
for the continuation of planned streets into adjoining areas.
      (3)   (a)   The street network for any subdivision shall achieve a
connectivity ratio of not less than 1.45 (see example below). The phrase
connectivity ratio means the number of streets links divided by the number of
nodes or link ends, including cul-de-sac heads. A LINK means and refers to that
portion of a street defined by a node at each end or at one end. Approved stubs
to adjacent property shall be considered links. However, alleys shall not be
considered links. A NODE refers to the terminus of a street or the intersection
of two or more streets, except that intersections that use a roundabout shall
not be counted as a node.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, an INTERSECTION shall be
defined as:
            1.   Any curve or bend of a street that fails to meet the minimum
curve radius as established by the North Carolina Department of Transportation,
Division of Highways design and minimum construction standards; or
            2.   Any location where street names change (as reviewed and
approved by the UDO Administrator).
      (4)   For the purposes of this section, the street links and nodes within
the collector or thoroughfare streets providing access to a proposed
subdivision shall not be considered in computing the connectivity ratio.
      (5)   Residential streets shall be designed so as to minimize the length
of local streets, to provide safe access to residences, and to maintain
connectivity between and through residential neighborhoods for autos and
pedestrians.
      (6)   Where necessary to provide access or to permit the reasonable
future subdivision of adjacent land, rights-of-way and improvements shall be
extended to the boundary of the development. A temporary turnaround may be
required where the dead end exceeds 500 feet in length. The platting of partial
width rights-of-way shall be prohibited except where the remainder of the
necessary right-of-way has already been platted, dedicated or established by
other means.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1298.jpg]
      (7)   Exemptions: new subdivisions that intend to provide one new cul-de-
sac street shall be exempt from the connectivity requirement when the UDO
Administrator determines that the subdivision will provide for connectivity
with adjacent future development and there is:
         (a)   No options for providing stub streets due to topographic
conditions, adjacent developed sites or other limiting factors; and
         (b)   Interconnectivity (use of a looped road) within the development
cannot be achieved or is unreasonable based on the constraints of the property
to be developed.
   (E)   Design standards. The design of all streets and roads within the
jurisdiction of this Unified Development Ordinance shall be in accordance with
the North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of Highways design
and minimum construction standards.
   (F)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Through traffic discouraged on residential collector and local
streets. Residential collector and local streets shall be laid out in such a
way that their use by through traffic will be discouraged. Streets shall be
designed or walkways dedicated to assure convenient access to parks,
playgrounds, schools or other places of public assembly.
      (2)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Planning Board on one
or both sides of the street in areas likely to be subject to heavy pedestrian
traffic such as near schools and shopping areas. Such sidewalks shall be
constructed to a minimum width of four feet, and shall consist of a minimum
thickness of four inches of concrete. All sidewalks shall be placed in the
right-of-way, unless the development is platted as a planned unit or group
development. Sidewalks shall consist of a minimum of six inches of concrete at
driveway crossings.
      (3)   Street names. Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment
with existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in Brunswick County
irrespective of the use of a suffix such as street, road, drive, place or
court. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Board and
the Brunswick County Emergency Management Director.
      (4)   Street signs. The subdivider shall be required to provide and erect
all street signs, including street name signs, to State Department of
Transportation standards within the subdivision.
      (5)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is
required for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is
required prior to any construction on the street or road. The application is
available at the office of district engineer of the State Division of Highways
(Wilmington Division, Burgaw District).
      (6)   Offsets to utility poles. Poles for overhead utilities should be
located clear of roadway shoulders, preferably at edge of rights-of-way on
major thoroughfares. On streets with curb and gutter, utility should be set
back a minimum distance of six feet from the face of the curb.
      (7)   Wheelchair ramps. In accordance with G.S. Chapter 136, Article 2A,
§ 136-44.14, all street curbs in this state being constructed or reconstructed
for maintenance procedures, traffic operations, repairs, correction of
utilities or altered for any reason after September 1, 1973, shall provide
wheelchair ramps for the physically handicapped at all intersections where both
curb and gutter and sidewalks are provided and at other major points of
pedestrian flow.
      (8)   Private streets.
         (a)   Streets designated as private may be allowed in subdivisions
when, in the opinion of the Planning Board, they provide adequate ingress and
egress onto collector streets, and they provide sufficient assurance through
legally established homeowners’ or similar owners’ associations, deed
restrictions and/or covenants, or other maintenance agreements, that said
street shall be properly maintained and said agreements perpetually carried
with the land. The Planning Board shall reserve the authority, when the public
welfare and safety warrant, requiring the public dedication of street rights-
of-way within developments. All private streets shall be designed and
constructed to meet or exceed the public street standards as specified in this
section.
         (b)   The UDO Administrator shall be assured, prior to preliminary
approval, that adequate provisions have been made through legal covenants and
restrictions which shall govern a homeowners’ association, or through other
legal agreements, that the responsibility as to the maintenance of the streets,
utilities or other areas designated as private areas or as a common area will
be accomplished by a source other than by public maintenance.
      (9)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter improvements are not required due
to the adverse impact urban stormwater could have on the valuable estuarine
waters in and around the town. However, this does not relieve the subdivision
developer from providing adequate grassed swales, culverts and retention ponds
for managing stormwater and runoff.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.62; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.224 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water supply system and sewage disposal system required. Every lot
within a subdivision shall be served by a water supply system and sewage
disposal system that is adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of the
proposed use and comply with all applicable health regulations. The applicant
must provide evidence that water supply system and sewage disposal system plans
have received final approvals by the appropriate agency prior to final plat
approval. For subdivisions in which the water supply system and/or sewage
disposal system to be installed is an individual system for each lot, the
installation of said systems will not be required prior to final plat approval.
   (B)   Stormwater drainage system. The subdivider shall provide a surface
water drainage system constructed to the standards of the State Department of
Transportation, as reflected in Handbook for the Design of Highway Surface
Drainage Structures, subject to review by the town’s consulting engineer.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
      (4)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the State Dam Safety Law of 1967 and the North Carolina
Administrative Code Title 15, Subchapter 2K.
      (5)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (C)   Street lights. All subdivisions in which the size of the smallest lot
is less than 20,000 square feet shall have street lights installed throughout
the subdivision in accordance with the standards of the town and Brunswick
Electric Membership Corporation. If underground wiring of street lighting is
requested by the developer or the town, the developer may be required to
install all fixed items such as conduit, pads, hand-holes and pole foundations;
the Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation will own and maintain the fixed
items.
   (D)   Underground wiring. All subdivisions in which the smallest lot is less
than 20,000 square feet shall have underground wiring (includes telephone/
communication). Such underground wiring shall be installed in accordance with
the standards of the electrical utility provider. The subdivider shall be
required to pay the charges for installation of the underground service.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.63; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.225 EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
   The approval of a plat shall not be deemed to constitute or effect the
acceptance by the municipality or public of the dedication of any street or
other ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on the plat.
However, the Board of Commissioners may by resolution accept any dedication
made to the public of lands for streets, parks or other public purposes, when
the lands are located within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction.
Acceptance of dedication of lands located within the subdivision regulation
jurisdiction but outside the corporate limits of the municipality shall not
place on the town any duty to open, operate, repair or maintain any street,
utility line or other land or facility, and the municipality shall in no event
be held to answer in any civil action or proceeding for failure to open, repair
or maintain any street located outside its corporate limits. Unless the town
shall have agreed to begin operation and maintenance of the water system or
water system facilities within one year of the time of issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the first unit of housing in the subdivision, the
town shall not, as part of its subdivision regulation applied to facilities or
land outside the corporate limits of the town, require dedication of water
systems or facilities as a condition for subdivision approval.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.64; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.226 VARIANCES.
   The Planning Board may authorize a variance from these regulations when, in
its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In granting any
variance, the Planning Board shall make the findings required below, taking
into account the nature of the proposed subdivision, the existing use of land
in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless the Planning
Board finds:
   (A)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting that property
such that the strict application of the provisions of this Unified Development
Ordinance would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of this land;
   (B)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner;
   (C)   The circumstances giving rise to the need for the variance are
peculiar to the parcel and are not generally characteristic of other parcels in
the jurisdiction of this Unified Development Ordinance; and
   (D)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in
which the property is situated.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.65; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.227 CEMETERY SUBDIVISION LOT SIZE EXEMPTION.
   Cemeteries and individual cemetery plot(s) may be platted and approved as
minor subdivisions and recorded that do not meet the minimum lot size of the
zoning district; however, the cemetery shall comply with all other zoning
district restrictions. Where there is not reasonable access to individual lots,
an 18-foot easement for ingress and egress may be established.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.66; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.228 NOTICE OF NEW SUBDIVISION FEES AND FEE INCREASES; PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD.
   (A)   The town shall provide notice to interested parties of the imposition
of or increase in fees or charges applicable solely to the construction of
development subject to this UDO at least seven days prior to the first Board of
Commissioners meeting where the imposition of or increase in the fees or
charges is on the agenda for consideration. The town shall employ at least two
of the following means of communication in order to provide the notice required
by this section:
      (1)   Notice of the meeting in a prominent location on the Town of
Carolina Shores website.
      (2)   Notice of the meeting in a prominent physical location, including,
but not limited to, any town building, library, or courthouse within the
planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the Town of Carolina
Shores.
      (3)   Notice of the meeting by electronic mail or other reasonable means
to a list of interested parties that is created by the Town of Carolina Shores
for the purpose of notification as required by this section.
   (B)   During the consideration of the imposition of or increase in fees or
charges as provided in division (A), the Town of Carolina Shores shall permit a
period of public comment.
   (C)   This section shall not apply if the imposition of or increase in fees
or charges is contained in a budget filed in accordance with the requirements
of G.S. § 159-12.
(Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.229 FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   Certificates for all plats. The following certificates shall appear on
all final subdivision plats, if applicable. Refer to divisions (B) and (C)
below for additional certificates required depending upon subdivision type.
      (1)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
 
      Certificate of Survey and Accuracy
   I,                               , certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from an actual
survey
made under my supervision (deed description recorded in Book               , page                etc.) (other);
that the boundaries not surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from information found in Book               ,
page               , that the ratio of precision as calculated is 1:             , that this plat was prepared
in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my original signature, registration number and seal this
               day of                A.D., 20       .
Official Seal
                                    
Registered Land Surveyor
                                    
Registration Number
 
      (2)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
   Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
I hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and described hereon, and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of
subdivision with my (our) free consent, and dedicate all roads and other sites and easements to public use as noted in the Disclosure of
Private Roadways, where applicable.
                                                                       
Owner(s)            Date
 
      (3)   Certification of private water/septic systems (if applicable). If
the Brunswick County Health Department has not approved private water or septic
systems, then the following written statement shall be included on the plat:
   “The Brunswick County Health Department has expressed no opinion as to the
suitability of private septic or water systems on this property. Each lot is
subject to individual inspection and approval of septic systems.”
   (B)   Certificates for minor subdivision final plats; certificate of
approval for recording final plat.
 
   Certificate of Approval for Recording Final Plat
I,                                   , UDO Administrator, certify that the Town of Carolina Shores fully approved the final plat of the
Subdivision entitled                                   .
                                                                       
Administrator         Date
 
   (C)   Certificates for major subdivision final plats.
      (1)   Certificate of approval of design and installation of streets,
utilities and other required improvements (if applicable).
 
   Certificate of Approval of Design and
   Installation of Streets, Utilities, and
   Other Required Improvements
I hereby certify that all streets, public utilities and other required improvements have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to NC
Department of Transportation and/or town specifications and standards or as otherwise provided for in this Unified Development Ordinance, and adopted
by the Town of Carolina Shores Board of Commissioners, or that guarantees for the installation of the required improvements in an amount and manner
satisfactory to Carolina Shores have been submitted.
                                                                           
Professional Engineer      Date
Official Seal
                                    
Registration Number
 
      (2)   Private road maintenance statement (if applicable). A maintenance
statement for private roads shall be submitted to the Planning Board with the
final plat and recorded at the Register of Deeds at the time the plat is
recorded.
      (3)   Flood damage prevention certificate of approval for recording.
 
   Flood Damage Prevention
   Certificate of Approval for Recording
I certify that the plat shown hereon complies with the Town of Carolina Shores Flood Damage Prevention requirements and is approved by
Carolina Shores for recording in the Register of Deeds office.
                                                                       
Administrator         Date
 
      (4)   Certificate of Approval for Recording Final Plat.
 
   Certificate of Approval for Recording Final Plat
I,                                   , UDO Administrator, certify that the Town of Carolina Shores fully approved the final plat of the
Subdivision entitled                                   .
                                                                       
Administrator         Date
 
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.67; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.230—91.239 RESERVED.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
PART I: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 91.240 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of
Chapter 143; Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and Articles 7, 9, and 11 of Chapter
160D, delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.241 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of Carolina
Shores are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life,
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.2; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.242 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)    Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.3; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.243 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this section are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (I)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (J)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a Special
Flood Hazard Area.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.4; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.244 LANDS TO WHICH THIS SECTION APPLIES.
   This section shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction, including extraterritorial jurisdictions (ETJs) as allowed by
law, of the town.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.5; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.245 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the
cooperating technical state (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina
and FEMA in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) dated August 28, 2018, for
Brunswick County and associated DFIRM panels, including any digital data
developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared a
part of this subchapter, and all revisions thereto. Future revisions to the FIS
and DFIRM panels that do not change flood hazard data within the jurisdictional
authority of the Town of Carolina Shores are also adopted by reference and
declared a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date: Brunswick County, dated August 18,
1992, the Town of Calabash, dated February 4, 1988, and Town of Carolina
Shores, dated September 17, 1998.
   (C)   The low lying and flood prone areas as identified in the Comprehensive
Plan of the Town of Carolina Shores, not otherwise depicted on a DFIRM, which
shall be regulated as a Special Flood Hazard Area Zone A.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.6; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020; Am. Ord. 25-2, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 91.246 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of §§
91.240 through
91.263 prior to the commencement of any development activities within Special
Flood Hazard Areas determined in accordance with the provisions of §
91.245.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.7; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.247 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure of land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of §§
91.240 through
91.263 and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.8; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.248 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   Sections
91.240 through
91.263 are not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions; however, where these section and another
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.9; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.249 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of §§
91.240 through
91.263, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.10; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.250 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by §§
91.240 through
91.263 is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and will occur.
Actual flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. Sections
91.240 through
91.263 do not imply that land outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
Sections
91.240 through
91.263 shall not create liability on the part of the town or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
Unified Development Ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.11; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.251 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The UDO Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator, or their designee, is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of §§
91.240 through
91.263. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator receives assistance
from others to complete tasks to administer and implement this subchapter, the
Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the coordination and
community's overall compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program and
the provisions of this subchapter. The Floodplain Administrator shall be a
Certified Floodplain Manager and shall review all plans and issue all permits
in the special flood hazard areas and shall also conduct all field inspections
in such areas. The Floodplain Administrator may delegate these duties as needed
to any number of assistants so long as they are Certified Floodplain Managers.
Such assistants shall be known as Assistant Floodplain Administrators and when
so designated shall undertake the assigned provisions, duties, and
responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.12; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.252 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
91.245, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
91.245;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
91.245;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
91.245,
91.253 or
91.258;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO, and A99 will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form FF 206 FY-
22-153) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but is not limited to, installation, exercise
and maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of §§
91.240 through
91.263 are met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
91.257(D)(3), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE,
AH, AO, and A99.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
91.257(F) and (G) of this Unified Development Ordinance are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g., house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with the available data specified in §
91.245;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of § 91.260 have been met;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements;
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (i.e., parking, building
access and limited storage only); and
      (9)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form FF 206 FY-22-153) is
required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD
1988. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form FF 206 FY-22-153 is required
after the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of
establishment of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done
within the seven-day calendar period and prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and
prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final Finished Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form
FF 206 FY-22-153) is required after construction is completed and prior to
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the reference level and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. The Finished Construction Elevation
Certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the
front and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of
certification. The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building
description and diagram number provided in division (A). To the extent
possible, these photographs should show the entire building including
foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at
least two additional photographs showing side views of the building. In
addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation showing a
representative example of the flood openings or vents. All photographs must be
in color and measure at least three inches by three inches. Digital photographs
are acceptable.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
FF 206 FY-22-153), with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
Form FF 206 FY-22-153), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an
inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed
design elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in
relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to
certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development
Permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to deny a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Manufactured homes. If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A,
AE, AH, AO, or A99 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of §
91.257 (C).
      (4)   Watercourse. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a
professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the proposed project
on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A99, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
91.257(F);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
91.257(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
91.257(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this subchapter is required.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.13; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020; Am. Ord. 25-2, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 91.253 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of §§
91.240 through
91.263 have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
33 U.S.C. 1334;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
91.260 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
91.252(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of §
91.252(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
91.252(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
91.252(C) and
91.257(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this Unified Development Ordinance;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
91.245, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
91.258(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this Unified Development
Ordinance;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
91.245, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area is above
the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option to apply for
a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of
map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this Unified Development Ordinance and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the Unified Development
Ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain
Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this Unified Development Ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator may order
the work to be immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and
directed to the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order
shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the
stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation
of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
91.254;
   (T)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with §
91.245, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change, issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMS, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.14; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.254 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of §§
91.240 through
91.263, Flood Damage Prevention;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building, or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of §§ 91.240 through
91.263, Flood Damage Prevention, he or she shall issue an order in writing to
the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time
period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days or
less. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to
life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in
such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court (refer to §
91.14).
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.15; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.255 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of §§
91.240 through
91.263, Flood Damage Prevention.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in Appendix A, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2),
(I)(3) and (I)(5) below have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of §§
91.240 through
91.263, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under Appendix A of this Unified Development Ordinance as a functionally
dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of §§
91.240 through
91.263, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
Unified Development Ordinance.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special
Flood Hazard Area;
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws; and
         (e)   The town notified the Secretary of the North Carolina Department
of Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar days
prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.16; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.256 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvement shall have a
freeboard of no less than three feet.
      (2)   All new buildings must be constructed on foundations that are
approved by a licensed professional engineer.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, duct systems, and building utility systems, equipment, and other
service facilities shall be located one foot above the RFPE and/or specially
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components,
and installed to resist hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses,
including the effects of buoyancy, during the occurrence of flooding to the
base flood elevation. Utility systems, equipment, and service facilities
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement shall also meet the
above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original elevation, provided the
improvement complies with the standards for new construction consistent with
the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Reserved.
   (I)   Nothing in this Unified Development Ordinance shall prevent the
repair, reconstruction or replacement of a building or structure existing on
the effective date of this Unified Development Ordinance and located totally or
partially within the floodway, non-encroachment area or stream setback,
provided there is no additional encroachment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or stream setback,
and provided that such repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the
other requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance.
   (J)   Reserved.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
 
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is located in a Special Flood Hazard Area, the entire
structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and substantial
improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in a flood hazard risk zone with multiple
base flood elevations, the provisions for the highest base flood elevation
shall apply.
   (Q)   Buildings and structures that are located in more than one flood
hazard area shall comply with the provisions associated with the most
restrictive flood hazard area.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.17; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020; Am. Ord. 25-2, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 91.257 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
91.245 or
91.258, the following provisions, in addition to §
91.256 are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in
Appendix A. Other higher standards shall apply:
      (1)   Floodways and NEAs. No new residential construction or substantial
improvement shall be permitted in a regulatory floodway or NEA.
      (2)   High velocity. No new residential construction or substantial
improvement shall be permitted where the product of depth times velocity is
greater than 18.
      (3)   Enclosures below elevated floors. New construction and substantial
improvement shall have enclosures below elevated floors limited to no more than
300 square feet.
      (4)   Setback. New construction shall maintain a minimum 50 foot setback
from any stream channel.
      (5)   Minimize disruption. New construction shall avoid or minimize
disruption to shorelines, stream channels, and their banks.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Appendix A. Structures
located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO and A99 may be floodproofed to the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation are watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. For AO zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with
§
91.261(B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this section are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator, along with the operational
plan and the inspection and maintenance plan. Other higher standards shall
apply:
      (1)   Floodproofing. In cases of new construction and substantial
improvement, floodproofing is prohibited.
      (2)   Enclosures below elevated floors. New construction and substantial
improvement shall have enclosures below elevated floors limited to no more than
300 square feet.
      (3)   Setback. New construction shall maintain a minimum 50 foot setback
from any stream channel.
      (4)   Minimize disruption. New construction shall avoid or minimize
disruption to shorelines, stream channels, and their banks.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in Appendix A.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes, adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed areas of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which are below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall not be temperature- controlled or conditioned;
      (3)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials, at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (4)   Shall include flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To
meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by a professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Shall be limited to no more than 300 square feet.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure;
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one-year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one-
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure
has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Temporary placement.
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions).
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (G)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The timeframe prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
91.256(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
91.256(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of §
91.257(D)(4).
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
and satisfies the criteria above is not required to meet the elevation or
floodproofing standards of §
91.257(B).
      (3)   Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for all
other accessory structures in accordance with
91.252(C).
   (I)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of §
91.260 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
91.260 of this subchapter.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of this subchapter. New subdivision streets shall be
designed so that during the base flood, they are no more than six inches under
water.
   (J)   Compensatory storage. Any reduction in the water-holding capacity of
the floodplain caused by any structures, improvements to the land or to a
structure, filling or regrading of land shall be compensated for such that no
increase in water surface elevation nor increase in peak discharge or velocity
shall occur either upstream or downstream of the development site, for all
storm events up to and including the one-hundred-year storm.
   (K)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Storage tanks. No gas or liquid storage tanks are to be placed
within a Special Flood Hazard Area.
      (2)   Sanitary landfills. No sanitary or construction debris landfills
are to be placed within the Special Flood Hazard Area.
      (3)   Septic systems. No septic systems are to be placed within the
Special Flood Hazard Area.
      (4)   Critical facilities. No critical facilities are to be placed within
any flood area: Zone A, B, V, or shaded X.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.18; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.258 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
91.245, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
91.256, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this Unified Development
Ordinance and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in
§§
91.256 and
91.257;
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from federal,
state or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements within
floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the requirements of
§§
91.257 and
91.260;
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
91.245 and utilized in implementing this Unified Development Ordinance; and
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in Appendix A. All other applicable provisions
of §
91.257 shall also apply.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.19; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.259 STANDARDS OF RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE DATA, BUT WITHOUT
ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
91.256 and
91.257; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non- encroachment area is designated,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.20; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.260 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
91.245. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
91.256 and
91.257, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted, unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If §
91.260(A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
91.257(C); and
      (2)   The encroachment standards of §
91.260(A).
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.21; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.261 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
91.245, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §§
91.256 and
91.257, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of three feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at two feet above
the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in division (A) so that the structure, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with §§
91.252 and
91.257.
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-
17-2020)
§ 91.262 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AH).
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
91.245, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas are subject
to inundation by one-percent-annual-chance shallow flooding (usually areas of
ponding) where average depths are one to three feet. Base Flood Elevations are
derived from detailed hydraulic analyses shown in this zone. In addition to §§
91.256 and
91.257, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 91.263 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention subchapter. Sections
91.240 through
91.263, in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance enacted September 17, 1998, as amended, and
it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this Unified Development Ordinance shall not affect any
action, suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood
damage prevention subchapter of the town enacted on September 17, 1998, as
amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this Unified Development
Ordinance; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.264—91.269 RESERVED.
PART II: STORMWATER CONTROL
§ 91.270 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All development shall be required to apply for and obtain a stormwater
permit addressing the below, except that listed as a driveway permit shall be
covered under that permit and not the stormwater permit.
      (1)   Driveways. Stormwater runoff from driveways, residential or
commercial, shall not discharge directly onto public or private thoroughfares.
Runoff shall be diverted to stormwater drainage facilities such as drainage
ditches, stormwater systems or on-site intrusion systems. On streets with a
curb and gutter section, runoff from a driveway directly to the curb and gutter
is anticipated and allowable; provided however, the driveway shall not be
steeper than a 3% to 4% grade. For streets with roadside ditches, the driveways
shall be cross-sloped or crowned to direct the runoff to the ditch system
before the driveway connection to the street. A trench drain may also be used
to intercept the runoff before it enters the street. Driveway permit item.
      (2)   Driveway access. Residential driveway access shall be a maximum of
36 feet wide. Note: this may be split up to allow for two 18-foot driveway
access points where the lot size will permit. In any case, the driveways or
culvert piping shall not be located any closer than five feet from the side
property line. Driveway permit item.
      (3)   Lot plans. Applicants shall prepare a site plan for each and every
lot to be developed that accounts for street flooding and local drainage from
and onto adjoining properties. The applicant shall be responsible for
protecting the development/building from such local drainage flow and shall
discharge the drainage flow onto adjoining lots in a manner that does not
adversely impact the adjoining lots, in each and every case providing for a
point of collection on the applicant's lot prior to discharge onto an adjoining
lot that does not create a hazard or exacerbated drainage problem on adjoining
lots.
      (4)   Impervious surface limits. No lot shall exceed 50% impervious
surface without managing stormwater. Such stormwater management shall limit the
post-development runoff discharge of the impervious surface area exceeding 50%
of the lot to a rate no more than the pre-development 25-year, 24-hour storm
runoff discharge rate. The maximum amount of impervious surface permitted on
any lot shall be 90%.
         (a)   Lots that fall outside of a master stormwater permit or
otherwise not part of a stormwater management plan approved by the State of
North Carolina shall limit the post-development runoff discharge of any
impervious surface area to a rate no more than the pre-development 25-year, 24-
hour storm runoff discharge rate.
      (5)   Elevation. The finished floor elevation of the first floor of any
structure must be a minimum of 18 inches above the surrounding finished grade
or the crown of the roadway, whichever is greater.
      (6)   Easements. Easements shall be restricted to prohibit all fences and
structures which would prevent access to the easement areas and/or prevent the
maintenance of the drainage system.
      (7)   Downspouts. No downspouts from roof gutters shall be discharged
into town ditches, or onto public or private driveways, parking areas and other
impervious surfaces that drain directly to storm sewers or streams. All such
downspouts from roof gutters shall be discharged into stabilized vegetated
areas where the runoff can infiltrate or by other means that allows the runoff
to infiltrate the ground as may be approved by the UDO Administrator.
   (B)   If a new development has a disturbance of one acre or more, or,
proposes to construct more than 10,000 square feet of built-upon area, all
stormwater control designs shall limit the post-development runoff discharge
rate to no more than the pre-development 50-year, 24-hour storm runoff
discharge rate. The developer shall comply with all applicable requirements and
thresholds established by the State Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources (Division of Water Quality, Division of Coastal Management (CAMA),
and Division of Land Quality), and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. A separate
master stormwater permit shall be issued pursuant to this section only upon
receipt of a completed application including permits from all other regulatory
agencies in addition to engineered plans and specifications in compliance with
the design limitations set forth herein. The issuance of a master permit under
this section shall not preclude or supersede permitting as required in division
(A).
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.23; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 21-1,
passed 9-17-2020; Am. Ord. 25-2, passed 5-15-2025)
§§ 91.271—91.279 RESERVED.
PART III: SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION CONTROL
§ 91.280 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All projects greater than one acre are required to comply with the North
Carolina Sedimentation and Erosion Control regulations. All required permits
must be provided to the town prior to project approval.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.24; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.281—91.289 RESERVED.
PART IV: RIPARIAN BUFFERS
§ 91.290 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Except as provided in G.S. § 143-214.23A, the town may not impose any
riparian buffer requirements.
(Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§§ 91.291—91.299 RESERVED.
APPENDIX A: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
A.1   Purpose
   
A.2   Interpretation
   
A.3   Definitions
§ A.1 PURPOSE.
   For the purposes of this Unified Development Ordinance, certain words,
concepts and ideas are defined herein. Except as defined herein, all other
words used in this Unified Development Ordinance shall have their customary
dictionary definition.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, App. A; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ A.2 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   As used in this Unified Development Ordinance, words importing the
masculine gender include the feminine and neuter.
   (B)   Words used in the singular in this Unified Development Ordinance
include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense include future tense.
   (D)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
corporation, company, trust and partnership as well as an individual.
   (E)   The words “may” and “should” are permissive.
   (F)   The words “shall” and “will” are always mandatory and not merely
directive.
   (G)   The words “used for” shall include the meaning designed for.
   (H)   The words “used” or “occupied” shall mean intended, designed and
arranged to be used or occupied.
   (I)   The word “lot” shall include the words plot, parcel, site and
premises.
   (J)   The word “structure” shall include the word building.
   (K)   The word “street” includes the word alley, road, cul-de-sac, highway
or thoroughfare, whether designated as public or private.
   (L)   The word “includes” shall not limit the term to specified examples,
but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances
of like kind or character.
   (M)   The word “administrator” shall mean the UDO Administrator or his or
her designee.
   (N)   The words “Planning Board” shall mean the Carolina Shores Planning
Board.
   (O)   The word “town” shall mean the Town of Carolina Shores, a municipality
of the State of North Carolina.
   (P)   The words “map,” “zoning map” and “Carolina Shores Zoning Map” shall
mean the Official Zoning Map for the Town of Carolina Shores, North Carolina.
   (Q)   The words Board of Adjustment shall mean the Carolina Shores Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, App. A; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
§ A.3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Unified Development Ordinance, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Having property or district lines in common. Lots are also
considered to be ABUTTING if they are directly opposite each other and
separated by a street or alley.
   ACCESS. A way of approaching or entering a property. ACCESS also includes
ingress, the right to enter, and egress, the right to leave.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A building or use not including signs, which is:
      (1)   Conducted or located on the same zoning lot as the principal
building or use served, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in
this Unified Development Ordinance;
      (2)   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in area and purpose to, and
serves the principal use; and
      (3)   Either in the same ownership as the principal use or is clearly
operated and maintained solely for the comfort, convenience, necessity or
benefit of the occupants, employees, customers or visitors of or to the
principal use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES . Pole barns, hay sheds and the
like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on
the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ADMINISTRATION HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
this chapter or other town development regulations. Also referred to as
ministerial decisions or administrative determinations.
   ADULT CARE HOME. An assisted living residence in which the housing
management provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled personal care services to
two or more residents, either directly or for scheduled needs, through formal
written agreement with licensed home care or hospice agencies. Some licensed
adult care homes provide supervision to persons with cognitive impairments
whose decisions, if made independently, may jeopardize the safety or well-being
of themselves or others and therefore require supervision. Medication in an
ADULT CARE HOME may be administered by designated trained staff. ADULT CARE
HOMES that provide care to two to six unrelated residents are commonly called
family care homes.
   ADULT DAY CARE PROGRAM. The provision of group care and supervision in a
place other than their usual place of abode on a less than 24-hour basis to
adults who may be physically or mentally disabled.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS DEF-INITIONS.
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment which derives more than 50% of
its revenues from the offering to customers of books, magazines, sexual
paraphernalia, films or videotapes (whether for viewing off-premises or on-
premises by use of motion picture machines or other image producing devices),
periodicals or other printed or pictorial materials which are intended to
provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers, and which
are distinguished by or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (2)   ADULT CABARET. An establishment whose principal business purpose is
the offering to customers of live entertainment which is intended to provide
sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers, and which is
distinguished by or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (3)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Includes, but is not necessarily
limited to, an adult club or cabaret used for any type presentation depicting,
exhibiting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein and also includes bookstores,
theaters, video stores, peep shows, model studios, sexual encounter centers,
massage parlors, escort services and motels as the same are further defined
herein and any other establishment which contains activities characterized by
the performance, depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state
of nudity or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. Modeling studios will
not be considered adult entertainment establishments if the person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
      (5)   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment
which:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the
room for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER. An establishment, containing a room with tiers or
rows of seats facing a screen, or projection area, whose principal business
purpose is the exhibition to customers of motion pictures which are intended to
provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and which
are distinguished by or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (7)   ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial enterprise selling or renting any
of the following as more than 50% of its gross revenues:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (8)   BODY PIERCING BUSINESS. A legitimate and legally licensed operation
offering body piercing services, other than ears, to the general public.
      (9)   ESCORT SERVICE. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
      (10)   EXTERIOR PORTION. Any part of the physical structure of a
regulated establishment, including a wall, veneer, door, fence, roof, roof
covering or window, which is visible from any public way or public property.
      (11)   FORTUNE TELLERS. A business that offers for sale the service of
predicting the future or spiritual guidance through palm reading, tarot cards,
crystal balls or other recognized means of fortune telling.
      (12)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any business or establishment where massage is
practiced, excluding health clubs which derive more than 90% of revenue from
sport activities or sale of memberships to engage in sport activities.
      (13)   NUDITY. The appearance of a bare human buttocks, male genitals,
female genitals or female breast(s).
      (14)   PEEK SHOWS. A theater which presents material in the form of live
shows, films or videotapes, viewed from an individual enclosure, for which a
fee is charged and which is not open to the public generally but excludes any
minor by reason of age.
      (15)   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than
the genitals, pubic region, areolae of the female breast and those portions of
the body covered by supporting straps and devices.
      (16)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
         (a)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex;
         (b)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
or
         (c)   Sadistic/masochistic flagellation or torture (real or simulated)
of one person by another and/or the fettering, binding or physically
restraining one person by another.
      (17)   SIGN. Any display, design, pictorial or other representation,
which shall be constructed, placed, attached, painted, erected, fastened or
manufactured in any manner whatsoever so that the same is visible from the
outside of a regulated establishment and that is used to seek the attraction of
the public to any goods, services or merchandise available at such regulated
establishment. The term SIGN shall also include such representations painted on
or otherwise affixed to any exterior portion of a regulated establishment as
well as such representations painted on or otherwise affixed to any part of the
tract upon which such a regulated establishment is situated.
      (18)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      (19)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY.
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts;
         (d)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
         (e)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain; or
         (f)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal
by a human being.
      (20)   TATTOOING. The inserting of permanent markings or coloration, or
the producing of scars, upon or under human skin through puncturing by use of a
needle or any other method.
      (21)   TATTOOING ESTABLISHMENTS. A legal business consisting of marking
and coloring the skin with tattoos, and all furnishings, equipment,
instruments, dyes and inks, and other facilities maintained herein incidental
to such use. TATTOOING ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include temporary tattooing.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street and is not intended for general traffic.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, receives or transmits and
receives electromagnetic signals used in the provision of all types of wireless
communications service.
   APARTMENT (DWELLING UNIT). A room or suite of rooms intended for use as a
residence by a single household or family (i.e., dwelling unit). Such DWELLING
UNIT may be located in an apartment house, duplex or as an accessory use in a
single-family home or a commercial building.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING .
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this Unified Development Ordinance.
   APPLICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. A request submitted by an
applicant to the town for a permit to collocate wireless facilities or to
approve the installation, modification, or replacement of a utility pole, town
utility pole, or wireless support structure.
   ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCE. Any group housing and services program for two or
more unrelated adults, by whatever name it is called, that makes available, at
a minimum, one meal a day and housekeeping services and provides personal care
services directly or through a formal written agreement with one or more
licensed home care or hospice agencies. Settings in which services are
delivered may include self-contained apartment units or single or shared room
units with private or area baths. There are three types of ASSISTED LIVING
RESIDENCES : adult care homes, adult care homes that serve only elderly
persons, and multi-unit assisted housing with services.
   AUCTION. A building, area or areas within a building used for the public
sale of goods, ware, merchandise or equipment to the highest bidder. Said sale
must be conducted by an auctioneer licensed in accordance with G.S. § 85B-4.
This definition excludes AUCTIONS for which the principal purpose is for the
sale of livestock or motor vehicles.
   AUCTION, ESTATE. Any sale where tangible personal property is sold by an
auctioneer licensed in accordance with G.S. § 85B-4 who is the agent for the
executor of the estate controlling the property being sold.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION). Any building or land used for the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail any automobile fuels along with
accessories such as lubricants or tires, except that car washing, mechanical
and electrical repairs, and tire repairs shall only be performed incidental to
the conduct of the service station and are performed indoors and has no fuel
pumps within 15 feet of any property line or street right-of-way. Incidental
activities shall not include tire retreading, body work, major mechanical work
or upholstery work.
   AUTOMOBILES/USED CAR LOTS. Every vehicle which is self propelled and
designed to run upon the highways and every vehicle which is pulled by such a
self propelled vehicle to the exclusion of buses, semi trucks, semi truck
trailers and any vehicles defined as commercial motor vehicles in G.S. § 20-
4.01 (3rd).
   BANNER. A sign or outside advertising display having the letters,
illustrations or visual representation applied to cloth, paper, vinyl, fabric
or similar material. The term shall include pennants, rafts, T-shirts, floats,
balloons, spinners, streamers and kites.
   BASE STATION. A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with
mobile stations, generally consisting of radio receivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies and other associated electronics.
   BATTERY CHARGING STATION. An electrical component assembly or cluster or
component assemblies designed specifically to charge batteries within electric
vehicles, which meet or exceed federal, state and/or local requirements.
   BATTERY EXCHANGE STATION. A fully automated facility that will enable an
electric vehicle with a swappable battery to enter a drive lane and exchange
the depleted battery with a fully charged battery through a fully automated
process, which meets or exceeds federal, state and/or local requirements.
   BEDROOMS. As defined by the NC State Building Code.
   BLOCK. A piece of land bounded on one or more sides by streets or roads.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. The portion of a block which abuts a single street.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A local body, created by ordinance, whose
responsibility is to hear appeals from decisions of the UDO Administrator and
to consider requests for variances from the terms of the Unified Development
Ordinance.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the town.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or motel where, for
compensation, meals are served and lodging is provided.
   BONA FIDE FARM PURPOSES. Agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. §
160D-903. Sufficient evidence that the property is being used for bona fide
farm purposes includes the following: (1) a farm sales tax exemption
certificate issued by the Department of Revenue; (2) a copy of the property tax
listing showing that the property is eligible for participation in the present-
use-value program pursuant to G.S. § 105-277.3; (3) a copy of the farm owner’s
or operator’s Schedule F from the owner’s or operator’s most recent federal tax
return; or (4) a forestry management plan.
   BUFFER. A fence, wall, hedge or other planted area or device used to
enclose, screen or separate one use or lot from another.
   BUFFER STRIP. Shall consist of plant material of such growth characteristics
as will provide an obscuring screen of not less than seven feet in height.
BUFFER STRIP would reasonably be expected within three years of planting. A
planted, growing barrier affording visual privacy and sight relief between
properties of dissimilar uses or character of buildings.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The linear length of a building facing the principal
street right-of-way.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average sidewalk grade
or street grade or finished grade and the building line, whichever is the
highest, to the highest point of the building.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person designated by the Board of Commissioners to
enforce the provisions of the Standard Building Code and the North Carolina
State Building Code.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL (MAIN). A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the plot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line measured parallel to the front property line
in front of which no structure shall be erected.
   CANOPY, MARQUEE  or  AWNING. Any roof-like structure extended over a
sidewalk or walkway.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. Official certification that a premises conforms to
provisions of the Zoning Code and Building Code and may be used or occupied.
Such a certificate is granted for new construction or for alterations or
additions to existing structures or a change in use. Unless such a certificate
is issued, a structure cannot be occupied.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   CHILD CARE. A program or arrangement where three or more children less than
13 years old, who do not reside where the care is provided, receive care on a
regular basis of at least once per week for more than four hours but less than
24 hours per day from persons other than their guardians or full-time
custodians, or from persons not related to them by birth, marriage or adoption.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. An arrangement where, at any one time, there are three or
more preschool-age children or nine or more school-age children receiving child
care.
   CLEARING, FILL AND GRADE PERMIT. Required permit issued by Building
Inspection Department prior to any land disturbing activity.
   CLUB OR LODGE (PRIVATE NONPROFIT, CIVIC OR FRATERNAL). A nonprofit
association of persons, who are bona fide members paying dues, which owns,
hires or leases a building, or portion thereof; the use of such premises being
restricted to members and their guests.
   COLLOCATION. The placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation, or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the
surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures, including utility poles,
town utility poles, water towers, buildings and other structures capable of
structurally supporting the attachment of wireless facilities in compliance
with applicable codes. The term COLLOCATION does not include the installation
of new utility poles, town utility poles, or wireless support structures.
   COMMERCIAL CENTER. Two or more retail stores, or service establishments,
professional offices or any other businesses serving a community or
neighborhood, not necessarily owned by one party nor by a single land
ownership, which occupy a common and/or adjacent building(s) on premises and
utilize common parking area(s).
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components,
including wires and cables and associated facilities used by a communications
service provider to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service as defined in 47 USC § 522(6),
information service as defined in 47 USC § 153(24), telecommunications service
as defined in 47 USC § 153(53), or wireless services.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 USC § 522
(5); a provider of information service as defined in 47 USC § 153(24); a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 USC § 153(51); or a wireless
provider.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The comprehensive plan, land use plan, small area
plans, neighborhood plans, transportation plan, capital improvement plan, and
any other plans regarding land use and development that have been officially
adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
   CONDITIONAL ZONING. A legislative zoning map amendment with site-specific
conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
   CONDOMINIUM, COMMERCIAL. A single unit in a multi-unit mixed use or
nonresidential development, which is separately owned and which may be combined
with an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities of the
development.
   CONDOMINIUM, RESIDENTIAL. A single dwelling unit in a multi-unit dwelling or
structure, which is separately owned and which may be combined with an
undivided interest in the common areas and facilities of the property.
   CONSTRUCTION ACCESS PAD. A gravel or stone pad designed to minimize the
transfer of soil from the construction site onto the roadway. A CONSTRUCTION
ACCESS PAD is required for industrial and commercial development and is to be a
minimum of 50 feet long, composed of a gravel bed to be a minimum of four
inches deep. A CONSTRUCTION ACCESS PAD is required for new construction in
residential development for single-family, multi-family and subdivisions and is
required to be a minimum of 20 feet long, composed of coquina to be a minimum
of 12 feet wide.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A structure or other improvement that, because of its
function, size, service area, or uniqueness, has the potential to cause serious
bodily harm, extensive property damage, or disruption of vital socioeconomic
activities if it is destroyed or damaged or if its functionality is impaired.
Critical facilities include health and safety facilities, utilities, government
facilities, and hazardous materials facilities.
   DECISION MAKING BOARD. A governing board, planning board, board of
adjustment, historic district board, or other board assigned to make quasi-
judicial decisions under this UDO.
   DECORATIVE LIGHTING. A string of outdoor lights suspended between two
points.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
DEDICATION must be made by written instrument, and is completed with an
acceptance.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre calculated based upon net
buildable area as defined herein. Density requirements shall be as follows in
the applicable residential districts, except, however, 40% of the total number
of dwelling units must be single-family detached units and not more than 75% of
the established buildable area may be made impervious.
   DEVELOPER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
   DEVELOPMENT. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term means
any of the following:
      (1)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
      (2)   Excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alternation of land.
      (3)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. §160D-802.
      (4)   The initiation of substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of the use of land.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval that is
written and that is required prior to commencing development or undertaking a
specific activity, project, or development proposal, including any of the
following:
      (1)   Zoning permits.
      (2)   Site plan approval.
      (3)   Special use permits.
      (4)   Variances.
      (5) Certificates of appropriateness.
      (6)   Plat approvals.
      (7)   Development agreements.
      (8) Building permits.
      (9) Subdivision of land.
      (10)   State agency permits for development.
      (11)   Driveway permits.
      (12)   Erosion and sedimentation control permits.
      (13)   Sign permits.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or
development proposal. Development approvals include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits, variances, and
certificates of appropriateness. The term also includes all other regulatory
approvals required by regulations adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D,
including plat approvals, permits issued, development agreements entered into,
and building permits issued.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation,
subdivision regulation, erosion and sedimentation control regulation,
floodplain or flood damage prevention regulations, mountain ridge protection
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulation, historic preservation or landmark regulation, housing code, State
Building Code enforcement, or any other regulation adopted pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160D, or a local act or charter that regulates land use or development.
   DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH). A measure of the size of a tree. Diameter is
measured by finding the circumference of the tree trunk with a tape measure and
dividing the result by pi (3.14159). The circumference measure shall be taken
at breast height - four and one-half feet above existing grade (the base of the
tree). In the event of a multitrunk tree, the DBH of each trunk shall be summed
to determine a total DBH for that tree.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1374.jpg]
   DISH ANTENNA OR EARTH STATION. A dish antenna, or earth station, is any
accessory structure capable of receiving, for the sole benefit of the principal
use, radio or television signals from a transmitter or a transmitter relay
located in planetary orbit.
   DISH ANTENNA OR EARTH STATION HEIGHT. The height of the antenna or dish
shall be that distance as measured vertically from the highest point of the
antenna or dish, when positioned at its lowest angle for operation, to ground
level at the bottom of the base which supports the antenna.
   DISH ANTENNA OR EARTH STATION SETBACK. The setback of a dish antenna shall
be measured from the center mounting post supporting the antenna.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   DOWN-ZONING. A zoning ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the
following ways:
      (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage.
      (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
   DUPLEX. A building containing two dwelling units, other than where a second
dwelling unit is permitted as an accessory use.
   DWELLING.   Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith. The term does not include any manufactured home, mobile
home, or recreational vehicle, if used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED.  A dwelling unit attached side-by-side to two or more
other dwelling units by common vertical walls. Each dwelling unit shall be
located on a separately deeded lot.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling unit not attached to another dwelling unit
that is developed with open yards on at least three sides.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A building containing two dwelling units, other than where
a second dwelling unit is permitted as an accessory use.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.  A building containing three or more dwelling units,
except where permitted as an accessory use.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A single building containing one dwelling unit
only, but may include one separate unit as an accessory use to be occupied only
by employees or relatives of the household. Such separate unit shall not
include kitchen facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or combination of rooms designed for year round
habitation, containing self-sufficient bathroom and kitchen facilities,
connected to all required utilities, and designed for or used as a residence by
one family. Units located within motels or hotels or travel trailers shall not
be included as dwelling units.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle that operates, either partially or exclusively, on
electrical energy from the grid, or an off-board source, that is stored on-
board for energy purpose.
      (2)   ELECTRIC VEHICLE includes:
         (a)   A battery powered electric vehicle; and
         (b)   A plug-in hybrid electric vehicle.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION. A public or private parking space located
together with a battery charging station which permits the transfer of electric
energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery or other storage device
in an electric vehicle. An ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION is permitted as an
accessory use to any principal use.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE PARKING SPACE. Any marked parking space that identifies the
use to be exclusively for an electric vehicle.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. A request for modification of an existing
wireless tower or base station that involves collocation of new transmission
equipment or replacement of transmission equipment but does not include a
substantial modification.
   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. An area surrounding or near the base of a wireless
support structure within which a wireless facility is located.
   EVENT. Any organized activity, celebration, etc., for members of the general
public or a particular group or social/commercial event.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING.  A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision
required by a development regulation adopted under G.S. Chapter 160D.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FALL ZONE. The area in which a wireless support structure may be expected to
fall in the event of a structural failure, as measured by engineering
standards.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption living
together as a single housekeeping unit and having a recognized head of
household. For the purposes of this Unified Development Ordinance, such persons
may include gratuitous guests, contributing roommates and domestic servants
employed on the same premises.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. An adult care home having two to six residents. The
structure of a FAMILY CARE HOME may be no more than two stories high, and none
of the aged or physically disabled persons being served there may be housed in
the upper story without provision for two direct exterior ground-level accesses
to the upper story.
   FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. A child care arrangement located in a residence
where, at any one time, more than two children, but less than nine children,
receive child care.
   FAMILY FOSTER HOME. The private residence of one or more individuals who
permanently reside as members of the household and who provide continuing full-
time foster care for a child or children who are placed there by a child
placing agency or who provide continuing full-time foster care for two or more
children who are unrelated to the adult members of the household by blood,
marriage, guardianship or adoption.
   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel
relocation, change in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-
sectional area of the channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of
modification which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
      (2)    AREA OF FUTURE-CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would
be inundated by the 1-percent-annual-chance (100- year) flood based on future-
conditions hydrology.
      (3)   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined
to be from one to three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined
channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
      (4)   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (5)   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
      (6)   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface
elevations of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When
the BFE has not been provided in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal or state or other
source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection
elevation.
      (7)   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      (8)   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
      (9)   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials.
      (10)   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which
will necessitate a Floodplain Development Permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
      (11)   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map
of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on
which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community are delineated.
      (12)   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings or columns.
      (13)   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill,
excavation, buildings, structures or development into a Special Flood Hazard
Area, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
      (14)   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or
structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective
date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
      (15)   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      (16)   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the
Special Flood Hazard Areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map
is a supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM).
      (17)   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the
Special Flood Hazard Areas have been defined as Zone A.
      (18)   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the
National Flood Insurance Program.
      (19)   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the Special
Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are
delineated. See also DFIRM.
      (20)   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and
determination of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if
appropriate), flood hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY
report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS) and Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
      (21)   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
      (22)   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
from any source.
      (23)   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer
and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
      (24)   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required
in conformance with the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance, prior
to the commencement of any development activity.
      (25)   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and
enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but
not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain
management regulations and open space plans.
      (26)   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Sections
91.240 through
91.263 of this Unified Development Ordinance and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power. This term describes federal,
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
      (27)   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, structures and their contents.
      (28)   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product [material,
component or system] capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact
(minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires
more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is
not resistant to alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-
grade use, is not flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-
resistant lumbers are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring
coverings that restrict evaporation from below and materials that are
impervious, but dimensionally unstable are not acceptable. Materials that
absorb or retain water excessively after submergence are not flood-resistant.
Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, and available from FEMA. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced
therein, are acceptable flood-resistant materials.
      (29)   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including
the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
      (30)   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the
impact that a proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is
expected to have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a
qualified North Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods
and models.
      (31)   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary
Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding
in the area.
      (32)   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to
account for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway
conditions, such as wave action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings and the
hydrological effect of urbanization on the watershed. The base flood elevation
plus the FREEBOARD establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (33)   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by
FEMA that amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood
Insurance Study. Letters of Map Change include:
         (a)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by
letter, to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based
on technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as
being in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base
flood elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
and establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure
is not located in a Special Flood Hazard Area.
         (b)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical
data that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, Special Flood
Hazard Area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric
features.
         (c)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination
that a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and
is, therefore, no longer located within the Special Flood Hazard Area. In order
to qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed
in accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
         (d)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
      (34)   MAP REPOSITORY.  The location of the official flood hazard data to
be applied for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood
data is stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the
application of digital flood hazard data products carry the same authority as
hard copy products. Therefore, the NCEM's Floodplain Mapping Program websites
house current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data
the NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
      (35)   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this Unified Development
Ordinance, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929,
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM
are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
      (36)   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other
watercourse, including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
      (37)   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start
of construction occurred on or after January 26, 1999, the effective date of
the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      (38)   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before January 26, 1999, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      (39)   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within
Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone A, AE, AH, AO or A99. The
reference level is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the
lowest floor for structures within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as
Zone VE.
      (40)   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation
plus the freeboard. In Special Flood Hazard Areas where base flood elevations
(BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus three feet of
freeboard. In Special Flood Hazard Areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
Duct work and other non- flood resistant materials are exempt from freeboard
requirements but must still be above BFE.
      (41)   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development
into compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or,
if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
Unified Development Ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing federal financial exposure with regard to the structure or other
development.
      (42)   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
      (43)   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain
subject to a 1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as
determined in §§
91.240 through
91.263.
      (44)   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a
gas, liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
      (45)   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET. A FEMA publication
that provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the
NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. C.F.R. at § 60.3. The
bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by state and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations; rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations. It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and
Technical Fact Sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP
regulations. State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take
precedence. Design professionals should contact the community officials  to
determine whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the
building or site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local
building code must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
      (46)   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a
heating and/or cooling system, built-in or appliance.
      (47)   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications or other evidence of compliance required in §§
91.240 through
91.263 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
      (48)   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD
1988, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of
riverine areas.
      (49)   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   FLOOR AREA. For determining off-street parking and loading requirements:
      (1)   The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the
building, or portion thereof, devoted to such use, including accessory storage
areas located within selling or working space as counters, racks or closets,
and any basement floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the production
or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
      (2)   However, FLOOR AREA for the purposes of measurement for off-street
parking spaces shall not include:
         (a)   Floor area devoted to primarily storage purposes (except as
otherwise noted herein);
         (b)   Floor area devoted to off-street parking or loading facilities,
including aisles, ramps and maneuvering space; or
         (c)   Basement floor other than area devoted to retailing activities,
to the production or processing of goods, or to business or professional
offices.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total floor area enclosed within a building.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of any one premises serving as a
public street right-of-way line. For lots with multiple FRONTAGES , the
PRINCIPAL STREET FRONTAGE shall be the same as that to which the building is
oriented. Should the owner wish to direct the sign solely to a FRONTAGE other
than the PRINCIPAL FRONTAGE , the linear length of this FRONTAGE will be used
to calculate the allowable area of the sign. Should the owner wish to direct
the sign to both FRONTAGES , the FRONTAGE having the highest vehicular traffic
volume shall be used to calculate the allowable area.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building used as an accessory to or a part of the main
building permitted in any residential district, and providing for the storage
of motor vehicles and in which no business, occupation or service for profit is
in any way conducted.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Town or County Board of Commissioners. The term is
interchangeable with the terms "board of aldermen" and "town/city council" and
shall mean any governing board without regard to the terminology employed in
charters, local acts, other portions of the NC General Statutes, or local
customary usage.
   GRANNY PODS. A temporary structure that will house a single mentally or
physically impaired person in accordance with G.S. § 160D-915. The statute
defines these to be North Carolina residents who require assistance with two or
more activities of daily living (bathing, dressing, personal hygiene,
ambulation, transferring, toileting, and eating). The impairment must be
certified in writing by a physician licensed in North Carolina.
   GROUP DEVELOPMENT. Multi-family development having multi-family units
grouped within more than one structure. This does not include townhouse
development.
   HALF STREET. A street whose centerline coincides with a subdivision plat
boundary with one-half the street right-of-way width being contained within the
subdivision plat. Also, any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a facility
for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or
disposal of hazardous waste.
   HELIPORT. An area providing for the takeoff and landing of helicopter and
fuel facilities (whether fixed or mobile) or appurtenant areas for parking,
maintenance and repair of helicopters.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
   (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program. Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation
Officer as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966 as amended in 1980.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for
gain or support and located entirely within a residential building or a
structural accessory thereto, which use is accessory, incidental and secondary
to the use of the building for dwelling purposes and does not change the
essential residential character or appearance of such building. Further,
provided that no more than 25% of the total floor area is used for such
purposes; that there is no outside or window display; and no more than one
person not residing on the premises is employed in connection with the home
occupation.
   HOST.  A permanent, full-time resident of a property who is present during
the homestay term for the entire time lodgers are staying on the property. The
host may be temporarily absent from the property for purposes related to normal
residential activities, such as shopping, working, attending classes, etc.;
however, a host must be at the property overnight when lodgers are present.
   HOMESTAY LODGING. A business engaged in the rental of individual bedrooms
within a dwelling unit that serves as a host's principal residence, including
any single-family or accessory apartment, that provides lodging for pay, for a
maximum continuous period of 29 days, that does not include serving food, and
to which the definition of family does not apply.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where:
      (1)   Sleeping accommodations are supplied for pay to transient or
permanent guests or tenants;
      (2)   Rooms are furnished for the accommodation of such guests; and
      (3)   May have one or more dining rooms, restaurants or cafes where meals
are served.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use or service which is unsuitable for direct
association and/or contiguity with certain other uses because it is
contradictory, incongruous or discordant.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, designed to be self-propelled, which by
virtue of broken or missing component parts, is no longer capable of self-
propulsion. For the purpose of this Unified Development Ordinance, any vehicle
which is registered with the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles and
has a current North Carolina motor vehicle registration license affixed to it
shall not be considered INOPERATIVE .
   JUNK YARD. Any area, in whole or in part, where waste or scrap materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packaged, disassembled or handled
including but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags,
vehicles, rubber tires and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes an auto wrecking yard,
but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS. Any state statute, rule, or regulation, or
local ordinance affecting the development or use of real property, including
any of the following:
      (1)   Unified development ordinance.
      (2)   Zoning regulation, including zoning maps.
      (3)   Subdivision regulation.
      (4)   Erosion and sedimentation control regulations.
      (5)   Floodplain or flood damage prevention ordinance.
      (6)   Stormwater control regulation.
      (7)   Wireless telecommunication facility regulation.
      (8)   Historic preservation or landmark regulation.
      (9)   Housing code.
   LANDOWNER.  The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence to the
contrary, the town may rely on the county tax records to determine who is a
landowner. The landowner may authorize a person holding a valid option, lease,
or contract to purchase, to act as his or her agent or representative for the
purpose of making applications for development approvals.
   LARGE SCALE ZONING AMENDMENT.  The rezoning of more than 50 parcels.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION.  The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation
under G.S. Chapter 160D or an applicable local act. The term also includes the
decision to approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement consistent with
the provisions of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 10.
   LEGISLATIVE HEARING.  A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 C.F.R. 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles except to be used, and
accessible to such vehicles. Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be
included as off-street parking space in computation of required off-street
parking space.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a main building
or group of main buildings and accessory buildings, together with such yards,
open spaces, lot width and lot area as required by this Unified Development
Ordinance, and having not less than the minimum required frontage upon a
street, either shown on a plat of record, or considered as a unit of property
and described by metes and bounds. Includes the words parcel, plat, plot and
tract.
   LOT, DEPTH. The DEPTH OF A LOT is the average distance between the front and
back lot lines measured at right angles to its frontage and from corner to
corner.
   LOT LINE. The line bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street, and in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are equal, the
FRONT LOT LINE shall be designated by the owner and filed with the town.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the REAR LOT LINE is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot that is not a front lot line nor a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office
of the County Register of Deeds by the owner or predecessor in title thereto.
   LOT TYPES.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees.
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous (through) lot which is accessible
from both streets upon which it fronts.
      (3)   FLAG LOT. A lot so shaped and designed that the main building site
area is set back from the street on which it fronts and includes an access
strip connecting the main building site with the frontage street.
      (4)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (5)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a corner
lot, an interior lot or a through lot.
      (6)   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
      (7)   THROUGH LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot
with
frontage on more than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be
referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS .
   LOT WIDTH. The straight line distance between the points where the building
setback line intersects the two side lot lines.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR , provided that such an
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Unified Development
Ordinance.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A.   A manufactured home that meets or exceeds the
construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development that were in effect at the time of construction and that satisfies
the following additional criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width;
      (2)   The manufactured home has a minimum of 700 square feet of enclosed
living area;
      (3)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of two and two-tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and
the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in standard
residential construction;
      (4)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (that does not exceed the reflectivity of gloss white
paint), wood or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and durability
to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (5)   The home is set up in accordance with the standards set by the
North Carolina Department of Insurance and a continuous, permanent masonry
foundation or curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation and
access, is installed under the manufactured home;
      (6)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, transporting lights have been
removed;
      (7)   Manufactured home to meet the requirements for Wind Zone 2; and
      (8)   All roof structures shall provide an eaves projection of six inch
minimum.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B.   A manufactured home meets or exceeds the
construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development that were in effect at the time of construction and that satisfies
the following criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width;
      (2)   The manufactured home has a minimum of 576 square feet of enclosed
living area;
      (3)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint), wood or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and durability
to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (4)   The manufactured home is set up in accordance with the standards
set by the North Carolina Department of Insurance and a continuous masonry,
vinyl, aluminum or wood curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation
and access is installed under the perimeter of the manufactured home;
      (5)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, transportation lights have been
removed; and
      (6)   Manufactured home to meet the requirements for Wind Zone 2.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site or tract of land, of contiguous ownership
upon which manufactured home spaces are provided for manufactured home
occupancy whether or not a charge is made for such service. This does not
include manufactured home sales lots on which unoccupied manufactured homes are
parked for the purpose of inspection and sales.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of land within a manufactured home park
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MOBILE OFFICE. A structure identical to a manufactured home except that it
has been converted, or originally designed and constructed, for commercial or
office use.
   MODULAR STRUCTURE. A structure that is constructed in accordance with the
construction standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code
for One- and Two-Family Dwellings and composed of components substantially
assembled in a manufacturing plant and transplanted to the building site for
final assembly and placement of a permanent foundation.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two or more dwelling units
within a structure or multiple single-family structures in a subdivision.
   MULTI-PHASE DEVELOPMENT. A development containing 25 acres or more that is
both of the following:
      (1)   Submitted for development permit approval to occur in more than one
phase.
      (2)   Subject to a master development plan with committed elements
showing the type and intensity of use of each phase.
   MULTIPLEX. Either a single family attached unit with individual access or a
multi-family unit with shared outside access. Small patios or balconies provide
outdoor living space.
   MULTI-UNIT ASSISTED HOUSING WITH SERVICES. An assisted living residence in
which hands-on personal care services and nursing services which are arranged
by housing management are provided by a licensed home care or hospice agency
through an individualized written care plan. The housing management has a
financial interest or financial affiliation or formal written agreement which
makes personal care services accessible and available through at least one
licensed home care or hospice agency. The resident has a choice of any
provider, and the housing management may not combine charges for housing and
personal care services. All residents, or other compensatory agents, must be
capable, through informed consent, of entering into a contract and must not be
in need of 24-hour supervision. Assistance with self-administration of
medications may be provided by appropriately trained staff when delegated by a
licensed nurse according to the home care agency’s established plan of care.
   NET BUILDABLE AREA. That area of the total subdivision less that area
designated as permanent recreation/common open space and less those areas
comprising the following categories:
      (1)   Easements for storm drainage or utilities;
      (2)   Highway/streets/associated rights-of-way;
      (3)   Sediment basins/water retention ponds;
      (4)   Wetlands defined by the North Carolina Coastal Management Act or
U.S. Corps of Engineers;
      (5)   Water and waste water treatment facilities;
      (6)   Local or state designated state historical sites; and
      (7)   Water area including seasonal ponds or lakes may be included in net
buildable area and counted towards open space if conveyed to a homeowners’ or
property organization with appropriate restrictions recorded in deed and
restrictive covenants to the property which restrict in perpetuity the use of
such land and facilities to open space and recreational uses as shown on the
master plan and is practicable to all property owners.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of the community’s flood
damage prevention requirements and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW OR USED CAR LOT. Any building or land used commercially for the sale of
or offering for sale of any motor vehicle or vehicles. MOTOR VEHICLE or
VEHICLES is defined as any machine designed or intended to travel over land by
self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this Unified
Development Ordinance or any amendment to it (and not created for the purpose
of evading the restrictions of this Unified Development Ordinance) that cannot
meet the minimum area or lot width or depth requirements of the district in
which the lot is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of a building, mobile home or land which does not
conform to the use regulations of this Unified Development Ordinance for the
district in which it is located, either at the effective date of this Unified
Development Ordinance or as a result of subsequent amendments which may be
incorporated into this Unified Development Ordinance.
   NUISANCE. Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property,
endangers personal health or safety, or is offensive to the senses.
   NURSING HOME. A facility, however named, which is advertised, announced or
maintained for the express or implied purpose of providing nursing or
convalescent care for three or more persons unrelated to the licensee. A
NURSING HOME is a home for chronic or convalescent patients, who, on admission,
are not as a rule, acutely ill and who do not usually require special
facilities such as an operating room, X-ray facilities, laboratory facilities
and obstetrical facilities. A NURSING HOME provides care for persons who have
remedial ailments or other ailments, for which medical and nursing care are
indicated; who, however, are not sick enough to require general hospital care.
Nursing care is their primary need, but they will require continuing medical
supervision.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Commissioners.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   OUT BUILDING. An attached or detached building on a single family lot, can
be used as a workshop or office as a home occupation.
   PARKING LOT. An area or plot of land used for the parking of vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A storage space of not less than 200 square feet in area and
ten feet by 20 feet in size for one automobile, plus the necessary access
space.
   PATIO HOME. A single-family detached or semi-detached unit built on a small
lot which may be enclosed by walls which provide privacy.
   PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any land held and developed as permanent open
space or any land dedicated to the public as parks, playgrounds, parkway
medians, landscaped green space, schools, community centers or other similar
areas held in public ownership or covered by an open space easement. Golf
courses may be included in open space designation with appropriate restrictions
recorded which restrict in perpetuity the use of such land and facilities for
golf course use and are available for all property owners; however, golf
courses shall not count towards more than 25% of the required PERMANENT COMMON
OPEN SPACE. No plan for a PRD or MIXED USE shall be approved unless such plan
provides for PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE equivalent to 25% of the total of the
PRD or MIXED USE site under consideration for development.
   PERSON.   Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the State of North
Carolina and its agencies and political subdivisions, or other legal entity.
   PLACE OF ASSEMBLY. A structure or open area for groups of people to gather
for an event or regularly scheduled program. PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY include,
but are not limited to, arenas, lecture halls, banquet facilities and similar
facilities.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT or PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Land under
unified control to be planned and developed as a whole; in a single development
operation or a definitely programmed series of development operations,
including lands and buildings; developed according to detailed plans that
include, but are not limited to, streets, utilities, lots or building sites,
and designed with a program for provision, operation and maintenance of such
areas, facilities and improvements as will be for common use by some or all of
the occupants of or visitors to the district, but such program will not be
provided, operated or maintained at general public expense.
   PLANNING BOARD. The public agency in a community usually empowered to
prepare a Comprehensive Plan and to evaluate proposed changes in land use,
either by public or private developers, for conformance with the plan.
   PREMISES. A single piece of property as conveyed in a deed or a lot or a
number of adjacent lots on which is situated a land use, a building, or group
of buildings designed as a unit or on which a building or group of buildings
are to be constructed.
   PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE. The domicile where an individual has a true, fixed,
permanent home and principal establishment, and to which place, whenever
absent, the individual has the intention of returning. A principal residence is
the one a person: (1) uses as his/her voting address; and (2) uses as the
address on one of the following: his/her federal and state tax returns,
military purposes, passport, vehicle registration, insurance policy, driver’s
license, bank account, or any other bill or item that requires a response; and
(3) occupies for at least 183 days during a calendar year.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
   PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way which affords access to
abutting properties and requires a subdivision streets disclosure statement in
accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES OFFICE. A business that offers any type of personal
service to the public which requires as a condition precedent to the rendering
of such service the obtaining of a license or other legal authorization. By way
of example, and without limiting the generality of this definition,
professional services include services rendered by certified public
accountants, public accountants, engineers, chiropractors, dentists,
osteopaths, physicians and surgeons, podiatrists, chiropodists, architects,
veterinarians, attorneys at law, physical therapists, life/property insurance
agents, real estate agents.
   PROPERTY. All real property subject to land use regulation by the town. The
term includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as part of
real property.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. An agency of the local, state or federal government.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling units
and approved by the County Health Department or the State Department of Natural
Resources and Community Development.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS. A decision involving the finding of facts
regarding a specific application of a development regulation and that requires
the exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The
term includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special
use permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are quasi-judicial in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
   RECREATION AREA OR PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various human-made features that accommodate such activities.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use;
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of property
rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
   RESIDENTIAL CHILD-CARE FACILITY. A staffed premises with paid or volunteer
staff where children receive continuing full-time foster care.
   RIPARIAN BUFFER. A landward setback from surface waters.
   ROW HOUSE. An attached residential dwelling unit.
   RURAL ROADS.
      (1)   LOCAL ROAD. A LOCAL ROAD serves primarily to provide access to
adjacent land and for travel over relatively short distances.
      (2)   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road which serves major intracounty travel
corridors and traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
      (3)   MINOR ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network joining cities and larger
towns and providing intrastate and intercounty service at relatively high
overall travel speeds with minimum interference to through movement. This
network would primarily serve traffic.
      (4)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides service to small local
communities and links locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
      (5)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous routes
serving corridor movements having trip length and travel density
characteristics indicative of substantial statewide or interstate travel and
existing solely to serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate
routes and other routes designed as principal arterials.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any nonresidential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SEARCH RING. The area within which a wireless support facility or wireless
facility must be located in order to meet service objectives of the wireless
service provider using the wireless facility or wireless support structure.
   SETBACK. The required distance between every structure and the lot lines of
the lot on which it is located.
   SIGN DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   ADVERTISING DEVICE OR SIGN. Any advertising sign, billboard,
statuary or poster which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment not exclusively related to the premises where such sign is
located or to which it is affixed; but does not include those advertising
signs, billboards or poster panels which direct attention to the business on
the premises or to a brand name of a product or commodity with which the
business is specifically identified and which is sold on the premises.
      (2)   ANIMATION. The movement, or optical illusion of movement of any
part of the sign. Also included in this definition are signs having chasing
action which is the action of a row of lights commonly used to create the
appearance of motion. Automatic changeable copy boards are permitted provided
that there is no running action to copy and provided that the copy does not
change more than once every one minute. No flashing, revolving or intermittent
illuminating shall be employed.
      (3)   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the
atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same property as the
light source. Also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
      (4)   DRIVE-THROUGH RESTAURANT MENU BOARD. A freestanding sign listing
the menu items for a drive-through eating establishment.
      (5)   FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns or symbols.
      (6)   MAINTENANCE. For the purposes of this Unified Development
Ordinance, the cleaning, painting, repair or replacement of defective parts of
a sign in a manner that does not alter the basic copy, design or structure of
the sign.
      (7)   MULTI-TENANT DEVELOPMENT. A grouping of lots, parcels or buildings
under unified ownership of land or tenancy designed with a common purpose and
used primarily for the retail sale of goods and services to the public.
      (8)   PARAPET. The extension of a false front or a false wall above the
roofline.
      (9)   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, string or
similar material, usually in series, and designed to move in the wind.
      (10)   PREMISES. A parcel or lot of real property with a separate and
distinct number or designation shown on a recorded plat, record of survey,
parcel map, subdivision map or a parcel  legally created or established
pursuant to applicable land use regulations. Out parcels of shopping centers
shall be considered on the premises of the shopping center. Multi-unit
buildings shall be considered on the premises of a subdivision.
      (11)   ROOF LINE. The top edge of a roof or building parapet, whichever
is higher, excluding any cupolas, pylons, chimneys or minor projections.
      (12)   SHOPPING CENTER. A building, group of buildings or strip mall
either connected or freestanding, under unified ownership of land that is
designed with common parking, pedestrian movement, ingress and egress, and is
used or is intended to be used primarily for the retail sale of goods and
services to the public.
      (13)   SIGN. Includes but is not limited to any flag, streamer, pole or
architectural device when it is intended to draw attention to or announce or
identify an enterprise.
      (14)   SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign, other than a billboard or off-premises
sign, that advertises a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction
or other enterprise or activity that is in disrepair, and the activity it is
promoting is no longer operating, being offered or conducted.
      (15)   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign that utilizes movement, the illusion of
movement, change of lighting, change of copy or other means to depict action or
create a special effect.
      (16)   SIGN, AWNING OR CANOPY. Any sign that is a part of or attached to
an awning, canopy or other structural protective covering above a door,
entrance, window or walkway.
      (17)   SIGN, BACKLIGHTING OR BACKLIT. Illumination of a sign in which
lights are placed within or behind raised opaque letters, thereby casting light
upon the background of the letters rather than through the letters.
      (18)   SIGN, BILLBOARD. One advertising device used to disseminate
information concerning a person, place or thing not pertaining to the use of
the land upon which it is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1376.jpg]
 
      (19)   SIGN, COLUMN/POLE. A sign supported by one or more columns or
poles or other similar support.
      (20)   SIGN, DOUBLE-FACED. A sign with two faces which are usually
parallel, but may be V-shaped.
      (21)   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign supported by a sign structure placed in
the ground and which is wholly independent of any building, fence, vehicle or
object (other than the sign structure) for support. A FREESTANDING SIGN may
contain a sign or signs on one side only or it may be a V-shaped structure or
one containing signs back-to-back. A FREESTANDING SIGN STRUCTURE is one sign.
      (22)   SIGN, GROUND-MOUNTED. A freestanding sign, supported by a
contiguous structural base or planter box that is permanently affixed to the
ground.
      (23)   SIGN, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the ground to
the top of the sign face or sign structure, whichever is greater.
      (24)   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign used to display only the name,
address, crest or trademark of the business, individual, family, organization
or enterprise occupying the premises, the profession of the occupant or the
name of the building on which the sign is displayed; or a permanent sign
announcing the name of a subdivision, shopping center, tourist home, group
housing project, church, school, park or public or quasi-public structure,
facility or development and the name of the owners or developers.
      (25)   SIGN, ILLEGAL. A sign that did not meet the applicable sign
regulations and regulations at the time that it was erected, does not meet the
current sign restrictions and regulations, or does not qualify as a
nonconforming sign.
      (26)   SIGN, INFORMATIONAL. Any sign that serves solely to provide
direction or information to persons using the property, such as entrance, exit,
parking or telephone, and that does not include business names, brand names or
information regarding product lines.
      (27)   SIGN, INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. A sign where the source of the
illumination is inside the sign and light emanates through the message of the
sign, rather than being reflected off the surface of the sign from an external
source. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following signs
are also categorized as being internally illuminated:
         (a)   Consist of or contain tubes that are filled with neon or some
other gas that glows when an electric current passes through it; and
         (b)   Are intended to form or constitute all or part of the message of
the sign, rather than merely providing illumination to other parts of the sign
that contain the message.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1378.jpg]
 
      (28)    SIGN, KIOSK. A sign consisting of three to five sides that lists
names of businesses located on a property or in a building.
      (29)    SIGN, MENU BOARD. A permanently mounted structure displaying the
bill of fare of a restaurant.
      (30)    SIGN, MESSAGE BOARD. A sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the
face or the surface of the sign. This definition does not include menu and
sandwich board signs.
      (31)   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. Any sign that was legal when established but
that does not conform to the requirements set forth herein as of the effective
date of this Unified Development Ordinance.
      (32)   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign or billboard that identifies or
communicates a message related to an activity conducted, a service rendered or
a commodity sold, which is not the primary activity, service or commodity
provided on the premises where the sign is located.
      (33)   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign that directs attention to a business
commodity, service or establishment conducted, sold or offered on the premises
on which the sign is erected.
      (34)   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported. Includes, but
is not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels,
runners, casters, trailers or other mobile devices;  signs converted to A-
frames or T-frames; balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and
signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public
right-of-way, unless said vehicle is regularly and customarily used in the
normal day-to-day operations of the business.
      (35)   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign attached to a wall and projecting away
from that wall more than 12 inches, but not more than five feet.
      (36)   SIGN, PUBLIC INFORMATION. A sign, erected and maintained by a
public agency, which provides the public with information including, but not
limited to, speed limit signs, stop signs, city limit signs, street name signs
and directional signs. These signs are in no way regulated by this Unified
Development Ordinance.
      (37)   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained upon or
over the roof of a building or extending above the highest wall of the
building, and having its principal support on the roof or walls of the
building.
      (38)   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A temporary A-frame or easel sign listing
specials of the establishment.
      (39)   SIGN, SNIPE. An off-premises sign that is tacked, nailed, posted,
pasted, glued or otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences or to other
objects
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1380.jpg]
 
      (40)   SIGN, STRUCTURE. Any structure that is built to support, supports
or has supported a sign.
      (41)   SIGN, SUBDIVISION. A sign identifying a recognized residential
subdivision, condominium complex or residential development.
      (42)   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign that is used in connection with a
circumstance, situation, or event that is designed, intended, or expected to
take place or to be completed within a reasonably short or definite period
after the erection of such sign, or is intended to remain on the location where
it is erected or placed for a period of not more than 15 days prior to and/or
following the associated circumstances, situation, or event.
      (43)   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to, or erected against or within the
wall of a building or structure, having the exposed face of the sign in a plane
parallel to the plane of such wall.
      (44)   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign, picture, symbol or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
sale or service that is placed inside a window, or upon the window panes or
glass, and is visible from the exterior of the window. For thepurposes of this
Unified Development Ordinance, a sign that rests against a window, a sign that
is separated from the window by a bumper pad, or a sign that is placed within
two inches of the window through the use of a hanging device, shall also be
considered a WINDOW SIGN.
      (45)   STREAMER. A long, narrow, ribbon-shaped flag or pennant.
   SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit only, but may include
one separate unit as an accessory use to be occupied only by employees, guests
or relatives of the household.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The site plan may include site-specific details such as building
areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street
rights-of way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking,
access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to
show compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
applicable to the project and the site plan review. A site plan approval based
solely upon application of objective standards is an administrative decision
and a site plan approval based in whole or in part upon the application of
standards involving judgment and discretion is a quasi-judicial decision. A
site plan may also be approved as part of a conditional zoning decision.
   SITE PLAN, MAJOR. All site plans not meeting the requirements for a minor
site plan.
   SITE PLAN, MINOR. Includes the following:
      (1)   Buildings or additions with an aggregate enclosed square footage of
less than 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Buildings or additions involving land disturbance of less than one
acre;
      (3)   Multi-family development involving less than ten dwelling units;
      (4)   Parking lot expansions which comply with this Unified Development
Ordinance with no increase in enclosed floor area;
      (5)   Revisions to landscaping, signage or lighting which comply with the
requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance;
      (6)   Accessory uses which comply with the requirements of this Unified
Development Ordinance; and
      (7)   Site plans which do not require a variance or modification of the
requirements of this Unified Development Ordinance, and otherwise comply with
this UDO.
   SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a DWELLING
UNIT are not sleeping units.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet.
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet. For purposes of this division
(2), the following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services, or other support structures.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35), any
facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIFIC TYPE RURAL OR URBAN STREETS.
      (1)   ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside
primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties
otherwise abutting on a street.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic and
other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround provided.
      (3)   FREEWAY, EXPRESSWAY  or PARKWAY. Divided multi-lane roadway
designed to carry large volumes of traffic at relatively high speeds. A FREEWAY
is a divided highway providing for continuous flow of vehicles with no direct
access to abutting property or streets and with access to selected crossroads
provided via connecting ramps. An EXPRESSWAY is a divided highway with full or
partial control of access and generally with grade separations at major
intersections. A PARKWAY is a highway for noncommercial traffic, with full or
partial control of access, and usually located within a park or a ribbon of
parklike development.
      (4)   FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street or road that is parallel to a full or
partial access controlled facility and functions to provide access to adjacent
land.
      (5)   LOCAL RESIDENTIAL STREET. Cul-de-sacs, loop streets less than 2,500
feet in length, or streets less than one mile in length that do not connect
thoroughfares or serve major traffic generators, and do not collect traffic
from more than 100 dwelling units.
      (6)   RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET. A local access street which serves as
a connector street between local residential streets and the thoroughfare
system. RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREETS typically collect traffic from 100 to 400
dwelling units.
   SPOT ZONING. The zoning of a relatively small area of land differently from
the way the majority of the surrounding land is zoned. Spot zoning is legal
only if the government establishes that it is reasonable. Reasonableness is
determined by considering the size of the area; any special conditions or
factors regarding the area; the consistency of the zoning with the land use
plan; the degree of change in the zoning; the degree it allows uses different
from the surrounding area; and the relative benefits and detriments for the
owner, the neighbors, and the surrounding community. The town should consider
the following factors in deliberating any potential spot zoning:
      (1)   The size and nature of the tract. The larger the area of spot
zoning the more likely it is to be reasonable. Singling out an individual lot
for special zoning treatment is more suspect than creating a zoning district
that involves multiple parcels and owners. Special site characteristics, such
as topography, availability of utilities, or access to rail or highways, can be
important in this analysis.
      (2)   Compatibility with existing plans. If a clear public policy
rationale for the different zoning treatment is set out in the local
government’s adopted plans, that evidences a public purpose for the zoning. By
contrast, a zoning action that is inconsistent with a plan may indicate special
treatment that is contrary to the public interest and thus be unreasonable.
      (3)   The impact of the zoning decision on the landowner, the immediate
neighbors, and the surrounding community. An action that is of great benefit to
the owner and only a mild inconvenience for the neighbors may be reasonable,
while a zoning decision that significantly harms the neighbors while only
modestly benefitting the owner would be unreasonable.
      (4)   The relationship between the newly allowed uses in a spot rezoning
and the previously allowed uses. The degree of difference in the existing
surrounding land uses and the proposed new use is also important. The greater
the difference in allowed uses, the more likely the rezoning will be found
unreasonable. For example, in an area previously zoned for residential uses,
allowing slightly higher residential density may be reasonable while allowing
industrial uses would be unreasonable.
      (5)   Ownership. In order to constitute spot zoning, the area to be
rezoned must be owned by a single owner.
   STANDING.  The following persons shall have standing to file an appeal:
      (1)   Any person meeting any of the following criteria:
         (a)   Has an ownership interest in the property that is the subject of
the decision being appealed, a leasehold interest in the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed, or an interest created by easement,
restrictions, or covenant in the property that is the subject of the decision
being appealed.
         (b)   Has an option or contract to purchase the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed.
         (c)   Was an applicant before the decision-making board whose decision
is being appealed.
      (2)   Any other person who will suffer special damages as the result of
the decision being appealed.
      (3)   An incorporated or unincorporated association to which owners or
lessees of property in a designated area belong by virtue of their owning or
leasing property in that area, or an association otherwise organized to protect
and foster the interest of the particular neighborhood or local area, so long
as at least one of the members of the association would have standing as an
individual to challenge the decision being appealed, and the association was
not created in response to the particular development or issue that is the
subject of the appeal.
      (4)   A town whose decision-making board has made a decision that the
council believes improperly grants a variance from or is otherwise inconsistent
with the property interpretation of an ordinance adopted by that council.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic
(or a private road only if permitted by this Unified Development Ordinance).
   STREET LINE. The line between the street right-of-way and abutting property.
   STREET, PRIVATE. Any road or street which is not publicly owned and
maintained and is used for access by the occupants of the development, their
guests and the general public.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders except for repair or
replacement.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location in or on the land or attachment to something having a permanent
location in or on the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions when any one or more of those divisions
is created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate
or future) and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of
a new street or a change in existing streets; but the following shall not be
included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations authorized by
this part.
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the municipality
as shown in this Unified Development Ordinance;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors;
and
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the municipality as shown in this Unified Development
Ordinance.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 29.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. All subdivisions not meeting the requirements for a
minor subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Includes all subdivisions that do not involve a public
street dedication, public easement dedication, dedication of floodplain and
open space, or other property dedication; or a subdivision containing ten lots
or less.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
ten-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 24% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred;
also considered repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any ten-year period for which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 24%
of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
91.255.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. The mounting of a proposed wireless facility on a
wireless support structure that substantially changes the physical dimensions
of the support structure. A mounting is presumed to be a SUBSTANTIAL
MODIFICATION if it meets any one or more of the criteria listed below. The
burden is on the local government to demonstrate that a mounting that does not
meet the listed criteria constitutes a substantial change to the physical
dimensions of the wireless support structure.
      (1)   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of:
         (a)   More than 10%; or
         (b)   The height of one additional antenna array with separation from
the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of a wireless support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the edge of the wireless support structure the greater of:
         (a)   More than 20 feet; or
         (b)   More than the width of the wireless support structure at the
level of the appurtenance.
      (3)   Increasing the square footage of the existing equipment compound by
more than 25,000 square feet.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure intended to serve a specific event and to
be removed upon the completion of that event. This term includes, but is not
limited to, bleachers, perimeter fencing, vendor tents/canopies, judging
stands, trailers, portable toilets, sound/video equipment, stages, platforms
and other impermanent devices, which do not involve grading or land form
alteration for installation, and which are not permanently affixed to the
ground.
   TEMPORARY USE. An activity or use of land which, having met certain
requirements and conditions, may be permitted for a period of limited duration,
and which may utilize temporary structures for the duration of the event.
   THERAPEUTIC FOSTER HOME. A family foster home where, in addition to the
provision of foster care, foster parents who receive appropriate training
provide a child with behavioral health treatment services under the supervision
of a county department of social services, an area mental health program ora
licensed private agency.
   TINY HOUSE. A single-family detached home not exceeding 699 square feet in
size (not including loft space) and complies with the North Carolina Building
Code, includes container homes. A tiny house on wheels for permanent occupancy
(longer than 30 days) is considered a recreational vehicle.
   TOURIST HOME/BED AND BREAKFAST. Any dwelling occupied by the owner or
operator in which rooms are rented to guests, for lodging of transients and
travelers for compensation, and where food may be served.
   TOWN HOUSE. A single-family attached dwelling in which units share common
side walls and are often designed in rows. Yard areas are small and privacy
requires careful protection.
   TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY. A right-of-way owned, leased, or operated by the town,
including any public street or alley that is not a part of the state highway
system.
   TOWN UTILITY POLE. A pole owned by the town in the town right-of-way that
provides lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure originally designed to transport something
or intended for human occupancy for short periods of time. TRAILERS shall
include the following.
      (1)   CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure manufactured of metal, wood,
canvas, plastic or other materials, or any combination thereof, mounted on
wheels and designed for travel, recreation or vacation use.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle or portable
structure mounted on such a vehicle designed as a temporary dwelling for
travel, recreation and vacation.
      (3)   TOW TRAILER. A structure designed to be hauled by another vehicle
and to transport vehicles, boats or freight.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a wheeled
chassis, designed to be towed by a self-propelled vehicle for use for travel,
recreation or vacation purposes, having a body width ten feet or less or body
length 32 feet or less when equipped for road travel.
   TWIN HOUSE. A semi-detached, single family house, which is connected along a
common breeze-way to a similar unit. Each structure has only two dwellings.
   UDO ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Board of Commissioners to
administer and enforce the provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance.
   URBAN STREETS.
      (1)   LOCAL STREET. Any link not part of a higher-order urban system
which serves primarily to provide direct access to abutting land and access to
higher systems.
      (2)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES. Major thoroughfares consist of interstate,
other freeway and expressway links, and major streets that provide for the
expeditious movement of volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
      (3)   MINOR THOROUGHFARES. Minor thoroughfares are important streets in
the urban system and perform the function of collecting traffic from local
access streets and carrying it to the major thoroughfare system by facilitating
a minor through traffic movement and may also serve abutting property.
   USE. Any continuing or repetitive occupation or activity taking place upon a
parcel of land or within a building including, but not limited to, residential,
manufacturing, retailing, offices, public services, recreation and educational.
   USED FOR. Includes the phrases arranged for, designed for, intended for and
occupied for.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for and used to carry lines,
cables or wires, lighting facilities, or small wireless facilities for
telephone, cable television or electricity, lighting, or wireless services.
   VARIANCE. Grant of relief from the requirements of this Unified Development
Ordinance in accordance with §
91.54(B).
   VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approval secured as specified in
G.S. Chapter 160D-108 or under common law.
   WAREHOUSE. A building where goods are stored before distribution to
retailers or kept in reserve.
   WATER TOWER. A water storage tank, a standpipe, or an elevated tank situated
on a support structure originally constructed for use as a reservoir or
facility to store or deliver water.
   WHOLE-HOUSE LODGING. A business engaged in the rental of an entire dwelling
unit that provides lodging for pay, for a maximum continuous period of 29 days
and does not include serving of food. Whole-house lodging uses are exempt from
the definition of family.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup
power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration. The term includes small wireless facilities. The term shall not
include any of the following:
      (1)   The structure or improvements on, under, within, or adjacent to
which the equipment is collocated.
      (2)   Wireline backhaul facilities.
      (3)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures or
utility poles or town utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person with a certificate to provide
telecommunications service in the state who builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support
structures for small wireless facilities but that does not provide wireless
services.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services, using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of WI-FI, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided to the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure, such as a monopole,
lattice tower or guyed tower that is designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless facilities. A utility pole or a town utility pole is not a
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except by trees or shrubbery or as
otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot, extending from the
front line of the building to the front line of the lot, including the area of
steps, eaves and uncovered porches, but not including the areas of covered
porches. See Figure a below.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building. See
Figure b below.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the building and the side line of the lot extending through from the front
building line to the rear yard or, where no rear yard is required, to the rear
line of the lot. See Figure c below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1382.jpg]
   ZERO LOT LINE. A concept commonly used in planned developments where
individual commercial buildings or dwellings, are to be sold along with the
ground underneath and, perhaps, a small yard or patio area. With ZERO LOT LINE
the minimum requirements for lot area and yards are not met and construction
takes place right up to the lot line.
   ZERO LOT LINE HOUSE. A single family detached unit which, instead of being
centered on the lot, is placed against one of the side lot lines.
   ZONING. A police power measure, enacted primarily by general purpose units
of local government, in which the community is divided into districts or zones
within which permitted and conditional uses are established as are regulations
governing lot size, building bulk, placement and other development standards.
Requirements vary from district to district. but they must be uniform within
districts. The Zoning Code consists of two parts: a text and a map.
   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT OR REZONING.  An amendment to a zoning regulation for
the purpose of changing the zoning district that is applied to a specified
property or properties. The term also includes: (i) the initial application of
zoning when land is added to the territorial jurisdiction of the town that has
previously adopted zoning regulations; and (ii) the application of an overlay
zoning district or a conditional zoning district. The term does not include:
(i) the initial adoption of a zoning map by the town; (ii) the repeal of a
zoning map and read option of a new zoning map for the entire planning and
development regulation jurisdiction; or (iii) updating the zoning map to
incorporate amendments where there are no changes in the boundaries of the
zoning district or land uses permitted in the district.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, App. A; Am. Ord. 16-1, passed 4-7-2016; Am. Ord. 19-2,
passed 7-12-2018; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 5-9-2019; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-
2020)
APPENDIX B: INSTALLATION DETAIL
TREE PROTECTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1387.jpg]
SHRUB PLANTING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1389.jpg]
SHADE AND SMALL TREE PLANTING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ce3e41b02ee63c27a28cfb764655094d6467c9e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1391.jpg]
(Ord. eff. 9-6-2012, App. B; Am. Ord. 21-1, passed 9-17-2020)
CHAPTER 92: UNIFORM ADDRESSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
92.01   Purpose and intent
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Reserved
   
92.04   Administration
   
92.05   Street names
   
92.06   Street numbering
   
92.07   Display of address numbers
   
92.08   Enforcement
§ 92.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide a uniform system of
street addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the town in order
to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response
services and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and buildings for
public service agencies and the general public.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      ADDRESS COORDINATOR. The official designated by the Town Administrator
charged with the administration of this chapter, including their authorized
agent or delegate.
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or equipment. When
separated by division walls from the ground up without openings, each portion
of such building may be deemed a separate building. For the purpose of this
chapter, the term BUILDING may also include other man-made structures.
      DRIVEWAYS. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot
abutting a public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, giving
access from that public road, recorded easement, recorded private road or
right-of-way, and leading to a building, use or structure on that lot. A
driveway may not serve more than a single lot unless it runs along a lot line
shared by more than one lot or otherwise an access easement is in place for
ingress/egress.
      ROAD ADDRESS. The combination of numbers and road names assigned by the
town and the county which uniquely identifies a particular building or lot.
      STREET. A public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or
egress. Such street may be of various types including highways, frontage roads,
rear access roads, streets with cul-de-sacs, and dead-end streets. This
definition includes secondary roads, but does not include driveways.
   (B)   Except as specifically set forth in this chapter, the definitions in
Chapter 91, and definitions of the town subdivision regulations shall govern
the meaning of words and phrases in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 92.03 RESERVED.
§ 92.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Address Coordinator will be responsible for the interpretation and
administration of this chapter within the territorial jurisdiction of the town,
including:
   (A)   Assigning all new street names;
   (B)   Assigning all numbers for properties and buildings;
   (C)   Maintaining address records of each property and building;
   (D)   Changing of existing addresses when necessary to facilitate sequential
house numbers along a street;
   (E)   Designating individual unit addresses within the multiple housing
units in conformity with this chapter;
   (F)   Coordinating with public safety personnel to assist the public in
complying with the requirements of this chapter; and
   (G)   Resolving disputes arising out of numbering or naming with other
public service agencies.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 92.05 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   (1)   The street names listed in the master file of the county
Planning, Zoning and Building Inspection Department are hereby declared the
official names of these roads, unless changed by action of the governing body
having jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Address Coordinator is hereby authorized to determine the need
for road name changes and to recommend such changes to the Town Administrator
for further consideration.
   (B)   All streets in the town shall be identified by a sign showing the
official name and at the discretion of the Director of Public Works, block
numbers. These street signs shall be placed at all intersections and shall
identify both intersecting streets.
   (C)   All subdivisions or developments which have new public or private
streets, roads, or vehicular access drives that have an assigned name as
recorded in the county E-911 ledger system shall have standard street signs
installed by the town. Such street signs shall comply with the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, published by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. Actual installation of street
signs shall be the responsibility of the town. The developer shall reimburse
the town for the full cost of initial installation of these signs. Maintenance
and replacement of such signs shall be the responsibility of the town. These
provisions shall also apply to intersecting private streets, roads or vehicular
access drives that have an assigned name as recorded in the county E-911 ledger
system.
   (D)   Single-family dwellings shall be prohibited from obtaining an assigned
street name as recorded in the county E-911 ledger system for a non-dedicated
private street, road or vehicular access drive.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 92.06 STREET NUMBERING.
   The methodology used to determine the assignment of house and building
address numbers shall be:
   (A)   Directionality of the road of origin used to determine "right" and
"left" shall be determined as North and East shall be "right" and South and
West shall be "left".
   (B)   Addresses shall be assigned sequentially in planned unit developments
where further subdivision is not possible. For developments under construction
at the passage of this chapter, the spacing of address numbers shall continue
as much as practicable as determined by the Address Coordinator. The Address
Coordinator shall have the right to authorize and approve alternate methods of
addressing which meet the intent of this chapter when strict adherence to these
standards cannot be reasonably met.
   (C)   The range of addresses shall begin with the lowest number in the range
being closest to the street of origin with the numbers increasing as the
distance from the street of origin increases.
   (D)   For all new streets, addresses shall be assigned along streets with
odd numbers on the left and even numbers on the right.
   (E)   All dead-end streets shall begin numbers at the open end, no matter
which compass direction they follow.
   (F)   Each block shall begin a new series, for example, 101, 201, 301.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 92.07 DISPLAY OF ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Street address numbers shall be clearly displayed in accordance with
U.S. postal requirements so that the location can be identified easily from the
street.
      (1)   The official address number shall be displayed on the front of a
building, or at the entrance to a building, whichever is most clearly visible
from the street or road during day and night.
      (2)   If a building is more than 100 feet from any road, the address
number shall be displayed within a three-foot perimeter at the end of the
driveway or easement nearest the road which provides access to the building.
      (3)   Numerals indicating the address number of a single-family dwelling
shall be at least three inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so
as to be legible from the road.
      (4)   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings
shall be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the
building facing the road or at the end of the building nearest the road.
      (5)   Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers throughout
the park. Each lot shall have a separate address number assigned. The address
number of each lot shall be clearly displayed on the lot so as to be legible
from the road, or it may be mounted on the mobile home unit provided that it is
removed if the home is transported to a new location.
      (6)   Numerals shall be of contrasting color to the background.
   (B)   The Address Coordinator shall have the right to authorize and approve
alternate methods of displaying house numbers which meet the intent of this
chapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot be reasonably met.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties provided for in this chapter, a
violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $50 as provided for in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 92.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued until an official house number has
been assigned for a lot. The record plat of any subdivision shall show the
address for each lot created and/or recorded.
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Inspection Division
until such street address numbers are properly displayed.
   (C)   This chapter may be enforced pursuant to §
10.08 of this code or ordinances as amended.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 6-9-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                           Code Section
1A-1, Rule 4(j)                      91.50
1A-1, Rule 4(j1)                     91.50
Chapter 7A                           91.255
Chapter 14, Art. 27A                 82.24
                                     10.08,
                                     81.27,
14-4                                 82.24,
                                     82.42,
                                     91.67,
                                     92.07
14-269                               82.41
Chapter 18B                          82.22
Chapter 20, Art. C                   61.31
Chapter 20, Art. 9A                  61.21
20-4.01                              82.38,
                                     Ch. 91, App. A.3
20-37.5                              73.16
20-128(a)                            82.38
20-222 (Repealed)                    80.09
Chapter 29                           91.04,
                                     Ch. 91, App. A.3
Chapter 44A, Art. 1                  80.11
47-30                                91.229
Chapter 62                           61.01
62-133.8(a)(7)                       91.91
62-350                               91.91
85B-4                                Ch. 91, App. A.3
Chapter 90, Art. 5                   82.40
Chapter 105                          91.83
105-164.3                            82.38
105-164.4(a)(4c)                     91.91
105-164.4(a)(6)                      91.91
105-277.3                            Ch. 91, App. A.3
113A-110                             91.11
Chapter 117                          91.91
Chapter 130A, Art. 9                 Ch. 91, App. A.3
130A-290(a)(6)                       Ch. 91, App. A.3
130A-290(a)(35)                      Ch. 91, App. A.3
130A-290(a)(36)                      Ch. 91, App. A.3
132-8                                91.62,
                                     91.65
Chapter 136, Art. 2A, 136-44.14      91.223
136-18(29)                           91.56
136-102.6                            Ch. 91, App. A.3
136-143 et seq.                      80.14
136-143                              80.14
Chapter 143, Art. 21, Part 6         91.240
143-143.15                           91.257
143-151.12(9)a                       91.40
143-151.13                           90.16
143-214.23A                          91.290
Ch. 143-215.58                       91.254
Chapter 143A, Art. 33 B              91.42
Chapter 144                          91.191
146-29.2(a)(7)                       91.91
159-12                               91.228
Chapter 160A, Art. 7, Part 3         Charter
                                     5.1
Chapter 160A, Art. 8                 91.240
Chapter 160A, Art. 19                Charter
                                     6.1
160A-75                              10.07
                                     10.08,
160A-175                             81.27,
                                     91.14
160A-184                             82.38
160A-193.1                           41.03
160A-205.3                           63.01
160A-303                             80.02
160A-303.2                           80.02
160A-307                             91.56
160A-411 (Repealed)                  90.16
160A-411.1 (Repealed)                90.16
160A-412 (Repealed)                  90.16
160A-413 (Repealed)                  90.16
160A-415 (Repealed)                  90.17
160A-418 (Repealed)                  90.36
160A-420 (Repealed)                  90.21
160A-421 (Repealed)                  90.21
160A-175 - 160A-193                  82.18
                                     91.05,
                                     91.11,
                                     91.14,
                                     91.40,
Chapter 160D                         91.43,
                                     91.50,
                                     91.60,
                                     91.61,
                                     Ch. 91, App. A.3
Chapter 160D, Art. 7                 91.02
Chapter 160D, Art. 7, Parts 7, 9, 11 91.240
Chapter 160D, Art. 8                 91.02
Chapter 160D, Art. 9, Part 4         91.04
Chapter 160D, Art. 10                Ch. 91, App. A.3
                                     90.52,
Chapter 160D, Art. 11                91.40,
                                     91.61
Chapter 160D, Art 12                 90.50,
                                     90.51
160D-107                             91.51
160D-108                             91.04,
                                     Ch. 91, App. A.3
160D-202                             91.40
160D-301                             91.41
160D-402                             91.40
Chapter 160D-403(b)                  91.54
160D-403(c)                          91.52
160D-405                             91.52
160D-405(c)(Repealed)                91.52
160D-602                             91.52
160D-602(b)                          91.50
160D-604                             91.41
160D-702(b)                          91.56
160D-703                             91.70
Chapter 160D-705                     91.50
160D-802                             Ch. 91, App. A.3
160D-804                             91.53
160D-903                             91.96,
                                     Ch. 91, App. A.3
160D-913                             91.04
160D-915                             Ch. 91, App. A.3
160D-947                             91.55
160D-1002                            91.53
160D-1108                            91.67
160D-1110                            91.52
160D-1112                            91.14
160D-1113                            91.52
160D-1114                            91.61
160D-1123                            91.14
160D-1203(8)                         90.52
160D-1206                            91.14
160D-1208                            91.14
160D-1402                            91.55
160D-1402(j)                         91.55
160D-1405(d)                         91.55
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed            Description
                                Charter
05-06-08 5-6-2008               3.2, Charter
                                3.3
-        12-1-2009              Charter 5.1
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.1  91.01
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.2  91.02
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.3  91.03
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.4  91.04
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.5  91.05
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.6  91.06
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.7  91.07
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.8  91.08
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.9  91.09
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.10 91.10
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 1.13 91.15
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.1  91.20
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.2  91.21
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.3  91.22
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.4  91.23
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.5  91.24
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.6  91.25
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.7  91.26
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.8  91.27
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.9  91.28
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.10 91.29
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.11 91.30
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.12 91.31
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.13 91.32
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.14 91.33
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 2.15 91.34
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 3.3  91.41
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 3.4  91.42
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 4.1  91.50
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 4.3  91.51
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.1  91.60
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.3  91.63
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.4  91.64
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.5  91.65
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.6  91.66
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 5.7  91.67
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.1  91.70
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.2  91.71
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.3  91.72
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.4  91.74
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 6.5  91.75
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.1  91.80
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.2  91.81
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.3  91.82
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.4  91.83
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.5  91.84
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.7  91.86
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.8  91.87
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.9  91.88
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.10 91.89
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.11 91.90
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.12 91.91
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.13 91.92
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.14 91.93
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.15 91.94
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.16 91.95
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.17 91.96
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.18 91.97
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.19 91.98
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.20 91.99
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 7.21 91.100
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.1  91.110
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.2  91.111
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.3  91.112
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.4  91.113
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.5  91.114
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.6  91.115
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 8.7  91.116
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.1  91.120
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.2  91.121
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.3  91.122
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.4  91.123
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.5  91.124
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.6  91.125
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.7  91.126
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.8  91.127
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.9  91.128
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.10 91.129
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.11 91.140
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.12 91.141
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.13 91.142
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.14 91.143
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.15 91.144
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.16 91.145
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.17 91.146
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.18 91.147
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.19 91.148
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.20 91.149
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.21 91.150
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.22 91.160
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.23 91.161
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.24 91.162
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.25 91.163
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.26 91.164
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.27 91.170
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.28 91.171
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.29 91.172
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.30 91.173
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.31 91.174
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.32 91.175
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.33 91.176
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.34 91.177
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.35 91.180
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.36 91.181
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.37 91.190
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.38 91.191
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.39 91.192
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.40 91.193
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.41 91.194
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.42 91.195
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.43 91.196
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.44 91.197
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.45 91.198
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.46 91.199
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.47 91.200
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.48 91.201
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.49 91.210
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.50 91.211
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.51 91.212
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.52 91.213
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.53 91.214
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.54 91.215
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.55 91.216
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.56 91.217
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.57 91.218
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.58 91.219
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.59 91.220
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.60 91.221
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.61 91.222
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.62 91.223
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.63 91.224
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.64 91.225
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.65 91.226
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.66 91.227
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 9.67 91.229
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1 91.240
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.2 91.241
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.3 91.242
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.4 91.243
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.5 91.244
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.6 91.245
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.7 91.246
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.8 91.247
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.9 91.248
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1091.249
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1191.250
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1291.251
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1391.252
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1491.253
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1591.254
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1691.255
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1791.256
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1891.257
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.1991.258
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.2091.259
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.2191.260
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.2391.270
-        eff. 9-6-2012, § 10.2491.280
-        eff. 9-6-2012, App. A  Ch. 91, App. A, A.1
-        eff. 9-6-2012, App. A  Ch. 91, App. A, A.2
-        eff. 9-6-2012, App. A  Ch. 91, App. A, A.3
-        eff. 9-6-2012, App. B  Ch. 91, App. B
-        9-4-2014               42.01—
                                42.05
14-1     10-9-2014              10.01—
                                10.08
                                20.01—
                                20.04,
                                20.10—
                                20.16,
                                20.20—
14-2     10-9-2014              20.24,
                                21.01—
                                21.03,
                                21.10,
                                21.20—
                                21.25
                                31.21—
14-3     10-9-2014              31.32,
                                32.01—
                                32.03
                                40.01—
                                40.14,
                                40.20,
                                40.21,
                                40.40—
                                40.48,
14-4     10-9-2014              40.99,
                                41.01—
                                41.06,
                                43.01—
                                43.06,
                                43.10,
                                44.01—
                                44.08
14-5     10-9-2014              Ch. 50,
                                Ch. 51
                                60.01—
                                60.10,
                                61.01—
                                61.04,
14-6     10-9-2014              61.10—
                                61.22,
                                61.30—
                                61.35,
                                62.01
                                70.01—
                                70.08,
                                71.01—
                                71.09,
                                72.01—
                                72.18,
                                72.25,
                                72.26,
                                72.35—
                                72.37,
                                72.45—
                                72.50,
                                72.55,
                                72.56,
                                72.65—
                                72.70,
14-7     10-9-2014              72.99,
                                73.01—
                                73.18,
                                73.20—
                                73.23,
                                73.30—
                                73.32,
                                73.40—
                                73.43,
                                73.99,
                                74.01—
                                74.03,
                                75.01—
                                75.10,
                                76.01—
                                76.12,
                                Ch. 77 Sched. I—
                                XXXIX
                                80.01—
                                80.15,
                                81.01—
                                81.07,
                                81.15—
                                81.23,
                                81.23.1,
                                81.24—
                                81.27,
                                82.01,
14-8     10-9-2014              82.02,
                                82.10—
                                82.18,
                                82.20—
                                82.24,
                                82.30—
                                82.38,
                                82.40—
                                82.42,
                                82.50—
                                82.55
                                90.01,
                                90.02,
                                90.07—
14-9     10-9-2014              90.09,
                                90.15—
                                90.21,
                                90.30—
                                90.39
                                91.41,
15-2     3-5-2015               91.64,
                                91.67
                                91.50,
                                91.60,
                                91.67,
                                91.74,
                                91.81,
16-1     4-7-2016               91.91,
                                91.101,
                                91.198,
                                91.201,
                                91.290,
                                Ch. 91, App. A, A.3
                                92.01,
16-3     6-9-2016               92.02,
                                92.04—
                                92.08
                                Ch. 77 Sched.
16-5     7-14-2016              VIII—
                                VIII-C,
                                XXII
17-2     8-4-2016               60.06
17-3     12-8-2016              91.67
                                Ch. 77, Sched.
                                VIII-C,
17-4     2-9-2017               XVI,
                                XXI,
                                XXII
17-5     3-9-2017               90.38
                                Ch. 77, Sched.
17-7     5-4-2017               IX,
                                X-A
                                Ch. 77, Sched.
18-3     9-14-2017              IX,
                                XXI,
                                XXII
                                22.01,
                                22.02,
                                22.10—
18-4     9-14-2017              22.12,
                                22.20,
                                22.21,
                                91.142
19-1     7-12-2018              81.06
                                91.211,
                                91.220,
19-2     7-12-2018              91.240—
                                91.263,
                                91.270,
                                App. A, A.3
19-6     12-6-2018              Charter
                                3.4
                                97.73,
19-11    5-9-2019               91.87,
                                App. A, A.3
20-1     8-8-2019               63.01,
                                63.02
                                Ch. 77, Sched.
20-2     12-5-2019              XXI,
                                XXII
                                91.01—
                                91.15,
                                91.20—
                                91.36,
                                91.40—
                                91.43,
                                91.50—
                                91.57,
                                91.60—
                                91.67,
                                91.70—
                                91.75,
                                91.80—
                                91.104,
                                91.110—
21-1     9-17-2020              91.116,
                                91.120—
                                91.123,
                                91.180,
                                91.181,
                                91.190—
                                91.201,
                                91.210—
                                91.229,
                                91.240—
                                91.263,
                                91.270,
                                91.280,
                                91.290,
                                App. A,
                                App. B
                                73.41,
21-5     5-3-2021               73.43,
                                Ch. 77, Sched. XXXI,
                                XXXVIII
                                81.15,
21-7     6-7-2021               81.23,
                                81.23.1
22-2     2-14-2022              91.74
22-3     3-14-2022              Ch. 77, Sched. V
22-5     8-15-2022              Ch. 77, Sched. VIII
22-9     9-12-2022              Ch. 77, Sched. XXXX
                                81.15,
21-7     6-7-2021               81.23,
                                81.23.1
22-8     9-12-2022              72.19
22-9     9-12-2022              Ch. 77, Sched. XXXX
                                Ch. 77, Sched. VIII,
                                VIII-A,
                                VIII-B,
22-11    10-11-2022             VIII-C,
                                IX,
                                X-A,
                                XXII
23-1     2-13-2023              10.08
23-2     2-13-2023              82.16 -
                                82.18
23-3     2-13-2023              82.38
23-4     4-10-2023              82.34
23-8     9-11-2023              90.50—
                                90.56
24-1     2-12-2024              Ch. 77, Sched. IX
24-2     5-13-2024              22.20,
                                22.21
25-1     2-10-2025              81.23.1
                                91.245,
                                91.252,
25-2     5-12-2025              91.253,
                                91.256,
                                91.270
25-5     6-9-2025               10.08,
                                10.09
25-6     6-9-2025               81.28
25-7     7-14-2025              80.02
                               
 
