CARTHAGE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 22.20, passed 12-19-2022; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2023 Regular Session Laws, Pamphlet No. 1
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com 
TOWN OFFICIALS
Town Manager             Emily Yopp
Finance Officer          Kesha Matthews
Town Clerk/HR Officer    Kimberly Gibson
Mayor                    Jimmy Chalflinch
Mayor Pro-Tem            John L. McDonald
Commissioners            Al Barber
                        Dan Bonillo
                        Anton Sadovnikov
                        Brent Tanner
Director of Public Works Allen Smith
 
ADOPTING ORDIANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF CARTHAGE, NORTH
CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF CARTHAGE
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of
Carthage are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower
and authorize the Town of Carthage to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has authorized general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of Carthage of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Carthage as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Carthage, North
Carolina.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles: TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS; TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION;
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS; TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE; TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS;
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS; TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES; TITLE XV: LAND
USAGE; TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES (Reserved); PARALLEL REFERENCES; INDEX.
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offence committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Clerk of
the Town of Carthage is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such
Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Town Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.   
Section 6.   This ordinance is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of this Municipality,
and shall take effect at the earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners on this the
18th day of October, 2010.
                                                 /s/
                                                Tom Stewart, Mayor
[SEAL]
ATTESTED:
/s/
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated the Code of Ordinances, Town of Carthage,
North Carolina, and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
Statutory reference:
   Admission of code into evidence, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   The underlying headings of the several sections of this code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and may not be used as
a basis for interpreting the action, whether the headings are original,
amended, or re-enacted.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the town.
   COUNTY. The County of Moore, in the State of North Carolina, except as
otherwise provided.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in certain cases the words swear and sworn shall
be equivalent to the words affirm and affirmed.
   OFFICIALS, BOARDS, and COMMISSIONS. Whenever reference is made to OFFICIALS,
BOARDS, and to COMMISSIONS by title only, they shall be deemed to refer to the
officials, boards, and commissions of the town.
   OR and AND.  OR may be read AND, and AND may be read OR if the sense
requires it.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant-in-common, joint tenant, or tenant-by-the-entirety, of the whole
or a part of the building or land.
   PERSON. Corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property as herein
defined.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after respectively.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes the mark of a person who cannot write
when intended as a signature.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, or bridge, and the approaches thereto within the town.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or a part of the
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TOWN, CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Carthage in
Moore County, North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   WRITING and WRITTEN. Printing and any other mode of representing words and
letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Excluded time. The time within which an act is to be done should be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day
would be a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that shall be excluded, and the
last day shall be the next following day.
   (B)   Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include feminine
and neuter and vice-versa, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   (C)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of
those persons or officers.
   (D)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
   (E)   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular number.
   (F)   Plural, singular. Words importing the singular shall include the
plural.
   (G)   Statute references. The reference "G.S." shall be construed to refer
to General Statues of North Carolina.
   (H)   Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and the present.
   (I)   Title of office. The title of any office shall be construed to include
the words, "Town of Carthage, North Carolina" unless the context requires
otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
   Rules of construction, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It is declared to be the intention of the Board that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code shall be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of any court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality or validity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs,
and sections of this code, since the same would have been enacted by the Board
without the incorporation in this code of an unconstitutional or invalid
phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Prior Code § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless  the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When an ordinance which repeals another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as
ordinances adopted prior to this code and included herein, shall be considered
as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required  to give
effect thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: "Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Carthage, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Carthage, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...."
The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed must be
specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and subsequent amending ordinances are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
"(Prior Code, §       )." The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Where no specific penalty is otherwise provided, any violation of any
provision hereof shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of not more than
$100, which may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of
debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within ten days after being cited
for violation of the ordinance. Each day's continuing violation of any
provision hereof shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Unless expressly stated otherwise in a chapter or appendix of this
code, a violation of this code shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to
G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties set forth above, the town may enforce any
provision hereof by an appropriate equitable remedy, including but not limited
to injunctions and orders of abatement, issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Any provision hereof may be enforced by any one, all, or a combination
of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section and pursuant to G.S.
§ 160A-175.
   (E)   All remedies set forth in this section are supplemental in nature and
are in addition to any other remedies provided elsewhere in this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 17-06, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 22.20, passed 12-19-
2022)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENT AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
33.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   FEES AND RATES
      
37.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Social Security coverage
Form of Government
   
30.15   Governing body
   
30.16   Powers and duties
   
30.17   Meetings
Government Officials
   
30.30   Duties of Mayor
   
30.31   Mayor Pro Tem
   
30.32   Duties of Clerk
   
30.33   Duties of Town Attorney
   
30.34   Duties of Finance Officer
   
30.35   Town Manager
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 SOCIAL SECURITY COVERAGE.
   Town employees shall be under Social Security coverage.
(Prior Code, § 21.05)
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 30.15 GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   The town shall operate under the Council- Manager form of government.
   (B)   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and Board of
Commissioners of five members.
   (C)   The governing body shall be charged with the general government and
administration of the affairs of the town.
(Prior Code, § 20.01)
Cross-reference:
   Code of Ethics, see
Chapter 37
   Also see Charter §§ 2.1 and 4.1
Statutory reference:
   Board to organize town government, see G.S. § 160A-146
§ 30.16 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be as set out in the
general statutes of the state, the Town Charter, and the ordinances of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 20.02)
§ 30.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the third Tuesday
of each month in the meeting room at the McDonald Building, unless otherwise
designated by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 20.15)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Board may be held according to the procedures
set out in the applicable general statutes.
(Prior Code, § 20.16)
   (C)   Any meeting of the Board may be continued or adjourned from day to
day, or for more than one day.
(Prior Code, § 20.17) (Amended 12-13-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
   Voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
§ 30.30 DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, and as such,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises, and all other
documents as authorized by the Board;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Board;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the town,
as he or she deems necessary;
   (F)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
   (G)   Perform other duties as authorized by the general statutes, the Town
Charter and this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 20.03)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.31 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   At the first meeting after their election, the Board of Commissioners
shall designate a Commissioner as Mayor Pro Tem.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have no fixed term of office, but as such,
shall perform all duties of the Mayor in the Mayor’s absence or disability.
(Prior Code, § 20.04)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.32 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall appoint a Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to:
      (1)   Act as secretary to the Board;
      (2)   Keep a true record of all proceedings of the Board;
      (3)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided
for that purpose;
      (4)   Act as custodian for all the books, papers, records, and journals
of the Board; and
      (5)   Perform other duties as may be required by law or by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 21.01)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Clerk specified, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Minutes to be kept, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 30.33 DUTIES OF TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney whose duties, to the extent
requested, shall be to:
   (A)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the town may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which may
be brought against or by any officer of the town, or in the capacity of the
person as an officer of the town;
   (B)   See to the full enforcement of all judgements or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the town;
   (C)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
   (D)   Draft or review any contract, lease, or other document or instrument
to which the town may be a party, and approve all ordinances and resolutions of
the Board as to form;
   (E)   At the request of the Board, draft ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the town;
   (F)   Attend meetings of the Board on request; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties required of him or her by G.S. § 160A-173 and
other laws and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 21.02)
Statutory reference:
   Town Attorney duties, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 30.34 DUTIES OF FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Board shall provide for the appointment of a Finance Officer, whose
duties shall be to:
   (A)   Keep the books and accounts of the town;
   (B)   Receive and disburse all moneys of the town as required under state
law;
   (C)   Countersign and preaudit all checks, drafts, contracts, purchase
orders, or other documents obligating town funds;
   (D)   Report to the Board concerning the finance of the town, as it may
require;
   (E)   Maintain all records of the bonded debt of the town and maintain
sinking funds;
   (F)   Supervise the investment of idle funds; and
   (G)   Perform other duties assigned by the general statutes, the Town
Charter, or by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 21.03)
Cross-reference:
   Clerk performs duties of Finance Officer, see §
30.32
Statutory reference:
   Finance Officer duties, see G.S. § 159-25
   Fiscal control generally, see G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.
§ 30.35 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Appointment; responsibilities. The Board shall appoint a Town Manager.
An employee in this class serves as the Chief Administrative Officer of the
town and is responsible for the daily operation of all departments. Work
involves planning, coordinating and directing departmental operations,
functions, programs and finances. The Manager supervises and evaluates
department heads, implements policies and directives of the Commissioners and
prepares the annual budget. The Manager exercises independent judgment in the
interpretation, application and enforcement of laws, regulations and policies.
The position requires frequent public contacts in the administration of duties.
Work is to be performed in accordance with laws, regulations and policies under
the general supervision of the Mayor and the Board of Commissioners, and is
subject to review and evaluation by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Summary of duties performed.
      (1)   Appoints and removes town employees, subject to notice being given
to the Board and consultation with the Board prior to the appointment or
removal of department heads.
      (2)   Keeps Board regularly informed of current town projects, problems
and issues.
      (3)   Serves as Chief Administrative Officer in supervising purchasing,
budget preparation and control, personnel transactions, planning and directing
the daily town operation.
      (4)   Serves as Budget Officer. Prepares annual town budget.
      (5)   Analyzes administrative problems, takes appropriate action or makes
recommendations for new or revised policies and procedures.
      (6)   Distributes information involving interpretation of policies, laws
and town activities; represents the town at meetings, conferences, workshops
and institutes; formulates policies, ordinances and procedures; confers with
department heads and staff; and evaluates job performance of department heads.
      (7)   Assists Police Chief and Fire Chief in resolving problems and
interpreting town policies and regulations.
      (8)   Attends all regular and special meetings of the Board of
Commissioners.
      (9)   Assures compliance with federal, state and town regulations, rules,
policies and procedures.
      (10)   Negotiates for easements for town projects; negotiates contracts
and monitors contracts.
      (11)   Works directly with Town Attorney on legal matters, drafting
ordinances and regulations.
      (12)   Advises Board of Commissioners on administrative matters.
      (13)   Maintains contacts with state and local governments and agencies.
      (14)   Attends workshops and training sessions.
      (15)   Works with the auditor to assure accountability.
      (16)   Researches and writes grants.
      (17)   Performs other duties as required or requested.
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
31.001   Board created
   
31.002   Membership; vacancies
   
31.003   Term of office
   
31.004   Removal of Board member
   
31.005   Organization; rules of procedure
   
31.006   Staff; financial authority
   
31.007   Duties of Board
   
31.008   Official Zoning Map
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
   
31.020   Establishment of Committee; composition
   
31.021   Terms of office; vacancies
   
31.022   Qualifications
   
31.023   Duties
   
31.024   Funds; financial authority; records
Historical Committee
   
31.035   Name; purpose
   
31.036   Membership; removal
   
31.037   Duties
   
31.038   Funds; financial authority; records; removal
Appearance Committee
   
31.050   Establishment of Committee; composition
   
31.051   Terms of office; vacancies; removal
   
31.052   Qualifications
   
31.053   Duties
   
31.054   Funds; financial authority; records
Economic Development Committee
   
31.065   Establishment of Committee; composition
   
31.066   Terms of office; vacancies
   
31.067   Qualifications
   
31.068   Duties
   
31.069   Funds; financial authority; records
Police Department
   
31.080   Department created; composition
   
31.081   Duties of Department
   
31.082   Hiring, supervision of personnel
   
31.083   Requirements, conditions of employment
   
31.084   Specific duties of Police Chief
   
31.085   Auxiliary police officers
Fire Department
   
31.100   Appointment of Fire Chief
   
31.101   Duties of Fire Chief
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.001 BOARD CREATED.
   A Town Planning Board is hereby created under the authority of G.S. § 160A-
361.
(Prior Code, § 24.01)
§ 31.002 MEMBERSHIP; VACANCIES.
   The Town Planning Board shall consist of seven voting members. Five voting
members shall reside within the town and shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners for three-year terms. Two voting members shall reside within the
town’s extraterritorial planning and zoning jurisdiction and shall be appointed
by the county Board of Commissioners for three-year terms. All voting members
shall be persons of recognized experience and qualifications and shall hold no
other official position except on a Board of Adjustment, unless otherwise
approved by the Board of Commissioners. All members of the Planning Board shall
serve without compensation. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 24.02)
§ 31.003 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The terms of office for all initial appointments after the adoption of
this section shall be configured as follows:
      (1)   Three members, one being a non-resident, with terms to expire on
June 30, 2000;
      (2)   Three members, one being a non-resident, with terms to expire on
June 30, 1999; and
      (3)   Two members, one being the non-voting ex officio member, with terms
to expire on June 30, 1998.
   (B)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for three-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 24.02)
§ 31.004 REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBER.
   Any member who has three unexcused absences in any 12-month period may lose
his or her status as a member of the Planning Board and be replaced at the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 24.02)
§ 31.005 ORGANIZATION; RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Within 30 days after appointment, the Planning Board shall elect its
Chairperson from the appointed members, and create and fill the other of its
offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson shall be one year with
eligibility for reelection. The Planning Board shall hold at least one regular
meeting per quarter which shall be open to the public, at a time and place
established by the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall adopt rules of
procedure for transaction of business and shall keep a record of all actions
and proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 24.03)
§ 31.006 STAFF; FINANCIAL AUTHORITY.
   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall serve as staff to the
Planning Board, shall attend all meetings, and shall advise the Board on all
matters of business appearing before it. No financial liability in the name of
the town shall be incurred by the Planning Board without the approval of the
Board of Commissioners or the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 24.04)
§ 31.007 DUTIES OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Committee shall serve as an advisory board to the Town Board of
Commissioners on matter involving planning, zoning, and development. As part of
this function, the Planning Board shall work with the Town Planner to provide
recommendations to the Town Board of Commissioners on the following items:
      (1)   Creation of a comprehensive development plan for the town and
extraterritorial jurisdiction, encompassing land use, transportation, economic
development, provision of public services and utilities, and growth;
      (2)   Creation of other strategic or small area plans assigned by the
Town Board;
      (3)   Action on any zoning, site plan, or development request for which a
recommendation by the Planning Board is required by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances;
      (4)   Action on any subdivision request for which a recommendation by the
Planning Board is required by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances; and
      (5)   Action on any other item referred to the Planning Board by the Town
Board.
   (B)   In making the recommendations, the Planning Board may work with and
confer with the Board, town staff, local residents, and business and community
leaders to seek public input prior to the formulation of the recommendation.
Where public hearings or public notice of requests are required by state law,
or by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, these shall be held in accordance with
applicable state statutes or local ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 24.06)
   (C)   The Planning Board shall from time to time, and at least annually,
make presentations to the Board of Commissioners, giving an update on its
activities and any recommendations on general planning, zoning, or development
matters deemed appropriate by the Planning Board. In addition, the Planning
Board shall furnish the Board of Commissioners each month a copy of the minutes
of the previous meeting.
(Prior Code, § 24.07)
§ 31.008 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The area for extraterritorial planning and zoning shall be as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, as defined in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 24.05)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 31.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMITTEE; COMPOSITION.
   A committee to be known as the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee is
established. The Committee shall be composed of eight voting members. The
members of the Committee shall meet within 30 days after their appointment and
shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson. The Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson shall be elected from amongst the newly appointed and incumbent
members. The term of Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and other officers shall be
for one year with eligibility for re-election. The responsibility of the Town
Manager shall be to provide relevant information to the Committee on issues to
be reviewed. The Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall attend each
meeting to serve in an advisory capacity to the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 24.21)
§ 31.021 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Terms shall expire June 30. As the term of each member of the
Committee expires, a successor shall be appointed by the Board as provided in §
31.020 for a term of three years. The Board shall fill vacancies on the
Committee occurring otherwise than by expiration of term, by appointment for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Committee members shall serve overlapping term of three years. The
terms of office for all initial reappointments after the adoption of this
section shall be configured as follows:
      (1)   Three members, one being a non-resident, with terms to expire on
June 30, 2000;
      (2)   Three members, two being non-residents, with terms to expire on
June 30, 1999; and
      (3)   Two members, one being a non-resident, with terms to expire on June
30, 1998.
   (C)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for three-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 24.21)
§ 31.022 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The members of the Committee shall be persons residing within the town and
surrounding community and shall be citizens of recognized ability and good
judgment and standing, who, in the opinion of the Board, can and will perform
their official duties to the best interest of the town and the citizens of the
town and surrounding community. All efforts will be extended by the Board to
select individuals who are thus qualified and who represent the populace of the
town and county.
(Prior Code, § 24.22)
§ 31.023 DUTIES.
   The Committee shall act as an advisory body to the Board and Town Manager.
The Committee shall work with and confer with town staff, local non-profit
groups, and business and community leaders to seek to improve town park and
recreation facilities. The Committee shall review and recommend all policy
changes occurring within the town park and recreation operations, including
policies regarding use of facilities, undertake fundraising for improvements to
town park and recreation facilities, shall recommend improvements, and shall
assist the Town Manager in the creation of a development plan for town park and
recreation facilities. The Committee shall also perform other duties as the
Board may direct. Decisions made by the Committee shall be consistent with all
codes and policies of the town. The Committee shall have a regular meeting each
month, date and time to be decided at the organizational meeting, with special
meetings called by the Chairperson. All meetings shall be held consistent with
state open meetings laws.
(Prior Code, § 24.23)
§ 31.024 FUNDS; FINANCIAL AUTHORITY; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Committee shall operate as a town appointed board virtually
functioning as a department of the town. This would require an annual budget to
be presented to the Town Manager. All funds shall be turned over to the town;
the town shall maintain all financial records (revenues and expenses) of the
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee.
(Prior Code, § 24.24)
   (B)   The Committee shall keep full and accurate records of all meetings
held and official action taken. All records and minutes of meetings shall be
subject to town audit. In addition, the Committee shall furnish the Board of
Commissioners each month a copy of the minutes of the previous meeting.
(Prior Code, § 25.25)
   (C)   Neither the Committee nor any person representing the Committee shall
incur any financial liability in the name of the town, unless approved by the
Town Manager or Board.
(Prior Code, § 24.26)
HISTORICAL COMMITTEE
§ 31.035 NAME; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The name of the committee shall be the Carthage Historical Committee.
The Committee may be referred to as the Historical Committee.
   (B)   The purpose of the Historical Committee shall be to collect, preserve
and display items and information relative to the history of the town.
(Prior Code, §§ 24.31, 24.32) (Am. Ord. passed 3-15-2010)
§ 31.036 MEMBERSHIP; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint the members of the Committee
for initial terms, as follows:
      (1)   Six members, with terms to expire on June 30, 2013;
      (2)   Eight members, with terms to expire on June 30, 2014; and
      (3)   Eight members, with terms to expire on June 30, 2015.
   (B)   At the end of the initial terms, members shall be appointed for three-
year terms. After three consecutive non-excused absences, a member shall be
removed from the Committee, and replaced by the Board. Attendance shall be
recorded at all meetings. The Committee shall develop and adopt by-laws to
govern its structure and proceedings, and shall elect officers, including a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The Board shall approve all officers.
Officers shall be: Chairperson, Assistant Chairperson, Secretary/Treasurer,
Museum Curator and Sergeant at Arms. Sub-committee of the Museum Curator shall
be: (1) Records, (2) Interior Maintenance, (3) Exterior Maintenance, and (4)
Special Programs. Appointments/elections should be for two years and no longer
than four years. The Chairperson and Assistant Chairperson shall appoint
special activities chairpersons when needed, such as for golf tournaments,
Christmas tours of homes, antique appraisals, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 24.33) (Am. Ord. passed 3-15-2010)
§ 31.037 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Committee shall act as an advisory body to the Board and Town
Manager on matters involving historic preservation within the town. The
Committee shall be authorized to seek donations to undertake preservation
projects within the town.
   (B)   The Committee shall work with and confer with town staff, local non-
profit groups, and business and community leaders to seek to preserve and
provide information about the history of the town. The Committee shall review
and recommend all policy changes involving historic preservation within the
town, including policies regarding use of town-owned museum facilities,
undertake fundraising for historic preservation projects, renovate historic
structures owned by the town, and shall operate the Historic Museum. The
Committee shall also perform other duties as the Board may direct. Decisions
made by the Committee shall be consistent with all codes and policies of the
town. The Committee shall have a regular meeting for nine months of the year.
Regular meetings will be suspended during the months of June, July, and August.
The Chairperson may call special meetings. All meetings shall be publicly
advertised and held consistent with state open meetings laws.
(Prior Code, § 24.34) (Am. Ord. passed 3-15-2010)
§ 31.038 FUNDS; FINANCIAL AUTHORITY; RECORDS; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Committee shall operate as a town-appointed board virtually
functioning as a department of the town and shall submit an annual budget to
the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 24.35)
   (B)   The Committee shall keep full and accurate records of all meetings
held and official action taken. All records and minutes of meetings shall be
subject to town audit. In addition, the Committee shall furnish the Board of
Commissioners each month a copy of the minutes of the previous meeting.
(Prior Code, § 24.36)
   (C)   Neither the Committee nor any person representing the Committee shall
incur any financial liability in the name of the town, unless approved by the
Town Manager or Board.
(Prior Code, § 24.37)
   (D)   The members of the Historical Committee serve at the pleasure of the
Board. The Board has the authority to remove any member at any time.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-15-2010)
APPEARANCE COMMITTEE
 § 31.050 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMITTEE; COMPOSITION.
   A committee to be known as the Appearance Committee is established. The
Committee shall be composed of 15 voting members. The members of the Committee
shall meet within 30 days after their appointment and shall elect a Chairperson
and a Vice-Chairperson. The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected
from amongst the newly appointed and incumbent members. The term of the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other officers shall be for one year with
eligibility for re-election. The responsibility of the Town Manager shall be to
provide relevant information to the Committee on issues to be reviewed. The
Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall attend each meeting to serve in an
advisory capacity to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 24.41) (Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.051 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Terms shall expire June 30. As the term of each member of the
Committee expires, a successor shall be appointed by the Board as provided in §
31.050 for a term of three years. The Board shall fill vacancies on the
Committee occurring otherwise than by expiration of term, by appointment for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Committee members shall serve overlapping terms of three years. The
terms of office for all initial reappointments after the adoption of this
section shall be configured as follows:
      (1)   Five members, with terms to expire on June 30, 2014;
      (2)   Five members, with terms to expire on June 30, 2015; and
      (3)   Five members, with terms to expire on June 30, 2016.
   (C)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for three-year terms. After
three consecutive non-excused absences, the Committee shall decide whether the
member shall be removed and replaced by the Board. The members of the
Appearance Committee serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Board has the
authority to remove any member at any time.
(Prior Code, § 24.41) (Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.052 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The members of the Committee shall be persons residing in town, including
the extraterritorial jurisdiction, shall be business or property owners in
town, and shall be citizens of recognized ability and good judgment and
standing, who, in the opinion of the Board, can and will perform their official
duties in the best interest of the town and the citizens of the town and
surrounding community. All efforts will be extended by the Board to select
individuals who are thus qualified and who will best represent the town.
(Prior Code, § 24.42) (Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.053 DUTIES.
   The Committee shall act as an advisory body to the Board and Town Manager.
The Committee shall work with and confer with town staff, local residents, and
business and community leaders to seek to improve the appearance of the town.
The Committee shall review and recommend all policy changes involving the
town’s nuisance ordinances, demolition of dilapidated buildings, and
maintenance of town rights-of-way and town-owned buildings and properties,
shall undertake fundraising for beautification efforts and downtown
revitalization projects, and shall recommend specific projects to be undertaken
by the town. The Committee shall also perform other duties as the Board may
direct. Decisions made by the Committee shall be consistent with all codes and
policies of the town. The Committee shall have a regular meeting at least
quarterly, date and time to be decided at the organizational meeting, with
special meetings called by the Chairperson. All meetings shall be consistent
with state open meetings laws.
(Prior Code, § 24.43) (Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.054 FUNDS; FINANCIAL AUTHORITY; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Committee shall recommend spending priorities to the Town Manager
as part of the annual budget process. All funds raised by the Committee shall
be turned over to the town. The town shall maintain all financial records
(revenues and expenditures) of the Appearance Committee.
(Prior Code, § 24.44)
   (B)   The Committee shall keep full and accurate records of all meetings
held and official actions taken. All records and minutes of meetings shall be
subject to town audit. In addition, the Committee shall furnish the Board of
Commissioners each month with a copy of the minutes of the previous meeting.
(Prior Code, § 24.45)
   (C)   Neither the Committee nor any person representing the Committee shall
incur any financial liability in the name of the town, unless approved by the
Town Manager or Board.
(Prior Code, § 24.46) (Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
§ 31.065 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMITTEE; COMPOSITION.
   A committee to be known as the Economic Development Committee is
established. The Committee shall be composed of seven voting members. The
members of the Committee shall meet within 30 days after their appointment and
shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson. The Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson shall be elected from amongst the newly appointed and incumbent
members. The term of Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other officers shall be
for one year, with eligibility for re-election. The responsibility of the Town
Manager shall be to provide relevant information to the Committee on issues to
be reviewed. The Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall attend each
meeting to serve in an advisory capacity to the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 24.51)
§ 31.066 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Terms shall expire June 30. As the term of each member of the
Committee expires, a successor shall be appointed by the Board as provided in §
31.065 for a term of three years. The Board shall fill vacancies on the
Committee occurring otherwise than by expiration of term, by appointment for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Committee members shall serve overlapping term of three years. The
terms of office for all initial reappointments after the adoption of this
section shall be configured as follows:
      (1)   Three members, one being a non-resident, with terms to expire on
June 30, 2000;
      (2)   Two members, one being a non-resident, with terms to expire on June
30, 1999; and
      (3)   Two members, with terms to expire on June 30, 1998.
   (C)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for three-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 24.51)
§ 31.067 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The members of the Committee shall be of business and community leaders
residing within the town and surrounding community and shall be citizens of
recognized ability and good judgment and standing, who, in the opinion of the
Board, can and will perform their official duties to the best interest of the
town and the citizens of the town and surrounding community. All efforts will
be extended by the Board to select individuals who are thus qualified and who
represent the community of the town and county.
(Prior Code, § 24.52)
§ 31.068 DUTIES.
   The Committee shall act as an advisory body to the Board and Town Manager.
The Committee shall work with and confer with town staff, the Council of the
Sandhills Chamber of Commerce, local residents, and business and community
leaders to seek to improve the business climate of the town. The Committee
shall seek to identify types of businesses needed in, to recruit new business,
to seek to retain existing businesses, and to support efforts to promote and
publicize the community. The Committee shall recommend policy changes affecting
economic development, shall recommend specific economic development project,
shall seek cooperation for joint town-Chamber of Commerce projects, shall
undertake fundraising for economic development projects, and shall recommend
spending priorities involving economic development. The Committee shall also
perform other duties as the Board may direct. Decisions made by the Committee
shall be consistent with all codes and policies of the town. The Committee
shall have a regular meeting at least quarterly, date and time to be decided at
the organizational meeting, with special meetings called by the Chairperson.
All meetings shall be held consistent with state open meetings laws.
(Prior Code, § 24.53)
§ 31.069 FUNDS; FINANCIAL AUTHORITY; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Committee shall recommend spending priorities to the Town Manager,
as part of the annual budget process. All funds raised by the Committee shall
be turned over to the town. The town shall maintain all financial records
(revenues and expenditures) of the Appearance Committee.
(Prior Code, § 24.54)
   (B)   The Committee shall keep full and accurate records of all meetings
held and official action taken. All records and minutes of meetings shall be
subject to town audit. In addition, the Committee shall furnish the Board of
Commissioners each month a copy of the minutes of the previous meeting.
(Prior Code, § 24.55)
   (C)   Neither the Committee nor any person representing the Committee shall
incur any financial liability in the name of the town, unless approved by the
Town Manager or Board.
(Prior Code, § 24.56)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.080 DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Police Department is created, subject to the terms, authority, and
conditions set out in division (B) below, and §§
31.081 through
31.085.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
   (B)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, and officers
of designated grade as the Board deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 31.081 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the members of the Police Department shall
have the duty of enforcing all the ordinances of the town and the laws of the
state within the town, and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each member of the Police Department, on
information furnished to him or her, or on his or her knowledge of any
violation of the ordinances of the town or of the laws of the state, to secure
proper warrants for the arrest and trial of any and all offenders against any
ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 31.082 HIRING, SUPERVISION OF PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have the duty of hiring persons as may be
necessary to man the Police Department and to provide the town with adequate
police protection, together with the duty of discharging the members.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
   (B)   The Chief of Police, subject to the general supervision of the Town
Manager, is held responsible for the discipline, good order, and proper conduct
of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
§ 31.083 REQUIREMENTS, CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the Chief
of Police after due examination and based on the results of the examination.
      (2)   An appointee shall serve one year’s probation.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)
   (B)   Every person appointed as a law enforcement officer shall:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   Be at least 20 years of age;
      (3)   Be of good moral character;
      (4)   Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state, and federal
fingerprint files;
      (5)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
      (6)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent;
      (7)   Pass an examination conducted by a physician employed by the town;
      (8)   Be interviewed and approved by Chief of Police;
      (9)   Be certified in accordance with state law;
      (10)   Be subject to a drug screening exam which shall produce a negative
result; and
      (11)   Be subject to a psychological exam which is positive.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement officers to be certified by the Criminal Justice Education
and Training Standards Commission, see G.S. § 17C-6
§ 31.084 SPECIFIC DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief commands the force under his or her order, and is
responsible for its discipline and efficiency. Further, he or she shall
recommend to the Town Manager the reforms and changes in the Police Department
which practical experience shows should be instituted. Periodically, the Chief
may be required to make out a statement of conduct of the affairs of the
Department, and shall include therein any suggestions for the improvement in
the service or personnel of the Department.
   (B)   Additional, specific functions of the Chief of Police are:
      (1)   To issue to the force under his or her command the orders and
directives as may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent crime,
arrest offenders, and to protect public and private property and persons in the
town;
      (2)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, regulations, and executive orders
applicable to his or her jurisdiction; and
      (3)   To require the proper submission and handling of the necessary
required reports.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
§ 31.085 AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   All police officers of the auxiliary police force of the town shall
complete, within the required time interval, any in-service training or
qualifications as may be required.
(Prior Code, § 30.09)
   (B)   While undergoing official training and while performing duties on
behalf of the town pursuant to the orders or instructions of the Chief of
Police, volunteer police officers of the auxiliary police force of the town
shall be entitled to benefits under the state Worker’s Compensation Act being
G.S. §§ 97-1 et seq. and to any fringe benefits for which the persons qualify.
(Prior Code, § 30.10)
   (C)   The operational rank of all volunteer police officers shall be “police
officer”, and they shall be subject to any and all lawful operational commands
of the chain of command of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)
   (D)   Volunteer police officers of the auxiliary police force of the town
shall be issued or allowed to retain uniforms and equipment as the Chief of
Police may allow.
(Prior Code, § 30.12)
   (E)   Notwithstanding the language of G.S. §§ 160A-284 or 128-1.1, the
public office of volunteer police officer of the auxiliary police force of the
town may not be held concurrently with any elected office and may only be held
concurrently with the public appointed offices or private employment as the
Chief of Police may approve. Any volunteer police officer of the auxiliary
police force of the town shall be deemed to have resigned from the auxiliary
police force of the town upon taking the oath of office of any elected office
or the acceptance of a public appointed office or private employment not
approved by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30.13) (Ord. passed 4-19-2004)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.100 APPOINTMENT OF FIRE CHIEF.
   There is hereby created the office of Chief of the Fire Department, to be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners for one-year terms, beginning on July 1
of each year, to serve at the Board’s pleasure. The members of the Department
shall have the opportunity to submit nominees for the position of Chief at
least 60 days prior to the expiration of the term; however, the Board is not
bound to nominate the nominated member. The Chief of the Fire Department shall
be required to reside within the town’s Fire Protection District. The Chief
shall be technically qualified by training and experience, and shall have the
ability to lead people and hold their respect and confidence. The Board of
Commissioners shall have the authority to demote, suspend, or dismiss the Fire
Chief. The Chief shall report to the Board of Commissioners through the Town
Manager. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from re-appointing
an individual to more than one successive term nor prevent the Board from
authorizing a full-time paid Chief. At the time as any paid personnel are
authorized, the positions shall be appointed by the Town Manager and fall under
his or her general supervisory and personnel authority, and under the
provisions of the town Personnel Policy.
(Prior Code, § 31.22) (Ord. passed 4-17-2000)
§ 31.101 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall:
      (1)   Have general control of the Department, the personnel, apparatus,
and fire alarm systems;
      (2)   Command the Department and supervise the fire-fighting and
extinguishing of all fires, and shall have the authority to keep away from the
vicinity of all fires any and all idle, disorderly, or suspicious persons; and
      (3)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all trucks and other equipment of
the Fire Department to ascertain that the equipment is being kept in proper
condition.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall report annually to the Board the condition of all
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 31.21)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Administration
   
32.01   Prior approval of bill or claim required
   
32.02   Required language on valid check or draft
   
32.03   Required signatures
   
32.04   Required language on contract, agreement, purchase order
   
32.05   When claims or judgments against town officers and employees paid
Taxation
   
32.20   Motor vehicle tax
ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.01 PRIOR APPROVAL OF BILL OR CLAIM REQUIRED.
   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act being
G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq., no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it
has been approved by the officer or employee responsible for the function or
agency to which the expense is charged.
(Prior Code, § 22.01)
§ 32.02 REQUIRED LANGUAGE ON VALID CHECK OR DRAFT.
   No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it bears on its face the
certificate of the Finance Officer as follows:
   “This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
(Prior Code, § 22.01)
§ 32.03 REQUIRED SIGNATURES.
   No check shall be valid unless it be signed by the Finance Officer and
countersigned by the Mayor or a designated Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 22.01)
§ 32.04 REQUIRED LANGUAGE ON CONTRACT, AGREEMENT, PURCHASE ORDER.
   No contract, agreement, or purchase order shall be valid unless it bears the
Finance Officer’s certificate as follows:
   “This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
(Prior Code, § 22.01)
Statutory Reference:
   Preaudit of disbursements required, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 32.05 WHEN CLAIMS OR JUDGMENTS AGAINST TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES PAID.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFFICER and EMPLOYEE. Present or past Mayors and members of the Board,
officers, employees, or volunteers, and present or past appointed members of
town boards, agencies, committees, and commissions who might hereafter have
claims or judgments entered against them.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the town to pay defense cost, expenses,
judgments, interest on judgments, deductible on insurance policies, and other
related costs on behalf of its officers and employees against civil claims and
judgments, and to satisfy same either through the purchase of insurance or
otherwise, provided adoption of this section shall not be deemed an assumption
of liability for payment of claims or judgments in addition to any insurance
coverage or any combination of a fund and insurance coverage.
   (C)   The town will not defend a claim or lawsuit or pay a claim or judgment
when the officer or employee willfully:
      (1)   Acts or fails to act because of actual fraud, corruption, or actual
malice;
      (2)   Acts or fails to act as a result of, or at a time when, his or her
self-indulgence substantially impaired his or her judgment (as, for example, an
officer or employee who causes damage or injury while intoxicated or under the
influence of drugs while on the job);
      (3)   Acts or fails to act, except in emergencies or the existence of
extenuating circumstances, directly contrary to instructions from his or her
superior, or directly contrary to advice of the Town Attorney; or
      (4)   Acts or fails to act in a manner so as to constitute a criminal act
(as, for example, misappropriation of property or funds).
   (D)   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall determine whether or
not a claim or suit filed against an officer or employee meets the requirements
specified herein for providing a defense for the officer or employee. If the
Town Manager, or his or her designee, determines that a claim or suit does not
meet the requirements specified herein, the affected officer or employee may
appeal the determination to the Board. The Board shall afford the officer or
employee a hearing on the matter, and shall decide whether or not the claim or
suit meets the requirements of this section.
   (E)   The policies specified herein shall not be applicable unless notice of
the claim or suit is given to the Board through the Town Manager or Town
Attorney prior to the time the claim is settled or civil suit is litigated and
judgment is entered.
   (F)   This section shall not be interpreted in any way to relieve any
insurance company of its obligation under any insurance policy to protect the
interests of any insured under the policy, or to reduce or eliminate the rights
of any officer or employee of the town against any other party. Further, except
as expressly stated herein, this section is not to be interpreted as a waiver
of any rights the town has against any party, nor shall the adoption of this
section be construed to waive the defense of governmental immunity.
   (G)   This section shall constitute uniform standards under which claims
made or civil judgments entered against officers or employees of the town shall
be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk for public inspection during all
normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 22.50)
TAXATION
§ 32.20 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   Under the authority of G.S. § 20-97, there is hereby levied a license or
privilege tax upon the use of each motor vehicle registered within the town.
The tax shall be billed in accordance with regular motor vehicle taxes by the
town, or by the outside agency contracted to collect taxes for the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
Disposal of Surplus Personal Property
   
33.01   Town Manager discretion
   
33.02   Disposal of property
   
33.03   Report on property disposal
DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 33.01 TOWN MANAGER DISCRETION.
   The Town Manager is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-265, to
dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the town, whenever he or she
determines, in his or her discretion, that:
   (A)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than an
amount set by the town;
   (B)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
   (C)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
(Prior Code, § 23.01)
§ 33.02 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   The Town Manager may dispose of any surplus personal property by any means
which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest attainable
sale price in money or other consideration, including, but not limited to, the
methods of sale provided in G.S. § 160A, Article 12. The sale may be public or
private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting period.
(Prior Code, § 23.01)
§ 33.03 REPORT ON PROPERTY DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall, on or before the February 1, report in writing
to the Board of Commissioners on property disposed of under this chapter from
July 1 through December 31 of the previous year, and shall, on or before August
1, report in writing to the Board of Commissioners on any property disposed of
under this chapter from January 1 through June 30 of that year.
   (B)   The general report shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange since the last report
was submitted.
(Prior Code, § 23.01)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Purpose of Plan
   
34.002   Types of disasters covered by Plan
Emergency Operating Center
   
34.015   Coordination of response and recovery
   
34.016   Command headquarters; information flow
   
34.017   Location; usage
   
34.018   Emergency documents
   
34.019   Communication center
   
34.020   Alerts and mobilization
   
34.021   Operational readiness and response reached
   
34.022   Operations responsibility and protocol
Emergency Services
   
34.035   Composition
   
34.036   Understanding of duties and responsibilities
   
34.037   Police Department duties and responsibilities
   
34.038   Fire Department duties and responsibilities
   
34.039   Rescue Squad duties and responsibilities
   
34.040   Public Works Department duties and responsibilities
   
34.041   Utility duties and responsibilities
   
34.042   Telephone service duties and responsibilities
Support Services
   
34.055   Composition
   
34.056   Understanding of duties and responsibilities
   
34.057   Public schools duties and responsibilities
   
34.058   Warning and alert contact list
Hurricane Preparedness Plan
   
34.070   Plan purpose
   
34.071   Annual steps
   
34.072   Duties of Emergency Management Coordinator
   
34.073   Duties of Police Department
   
34.074   Duties of Fire Department
   
34.075   Duties of Administrative/Finance Department
   
34.076   Duties of Public Works Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 PURPOSE OF PLAN.
   The purpose of this plan is to provide a plan of action to meet the need of
handling emergencies requiring the coordinated efforts of the town Departments,
other government agencies, and support organizations to quickly and effectively
deploy personnel, equipment, and resources in a coordinated effort to minimize
the effects of the disaster, and to provide assistance to the citizens of the
town.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.002 TYPES OF DISASTERS COVERED BY PLAN.
   (A)   As a result of its geographic location, topography, air traffic
systems, and growing community, the town can assume itself vulnerable to the
following types of natural and human-made disasters:
      (1)   Tornadoes;
      (2)   Flooding;
      (3)   Ice and/or snow;
      (4)   High winds and/or hurricanes;
      (5)   Earthquakes;
      (6)   Highway accidents;
      (7)   Hazardous materials and transportation accidents;
      (8)   Utilities problems:
         (a)   Water contamination; and/or
         (b)   Power loss.
      (9)   Nuclear accidents:
         (a)   Warfare; and/or
         (b)   Power and other commercial.
      (10)   Chemical spills:
         (a)   Farm supplies;
         (b)   Water treatment plant; and/or
         (c)   Light industry.
      (11)   Major fires:
         (a)   Commercial area (old buildings); and/or
         (b)   Bulk storage (flammable liquids).
      (12)   Bomb threats;
      (13)   Civil disturbances; and
      (14)   Others.
   (B)   In the event of any of the above disasters occurring in the town or
surrounding areas, the town can expect to face the need for restoring order,
repairing the town’s infrastructure, major cleanup, and assisting with the
provisions of shelter and food for a large number of evacuees or casualties.
The town can be isolated for an extended period of time in the event of a
nuclear accident or attack. Parts or all of the town can be isolated for
several days as a result of disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and
major fires or explosions.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
EMERGENCY OPERATING CENTER
§ 34.015 COORDINATION OF RESPONSE AND RECOVERY.
   The town Emergency Operating Center (EOC) is the key location from which
coordination of responses to and the recovery from a disaster condition
originates.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.016 COMMAND HEADQUARTERS; INFORMATION FLOW.
   It should be understood that the town EOC is the emergency operational
command headquarters during disaster mitigation. The flow of information both
into and out of the EOC during emergency operations is critical to the
coordination of the total response effort. The Chief Administrative Officer
(the Town Manager) is the responsible coordinating agent. The department heads
(Emergency Staff) command and control field operations.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.017 LOCATION; USAGE.
   The town EOC will be located at the Police Department at the Municipal
Building in an area protected from the potentials of flooding, high winds, and
the like. The EOC will be provided with emergency generator power and life
support facilities. Telephone and radio communications equipment are an
integral part of the EOC capability. The EOC may well serve as a multipurpose,
dual-use facility for local government. This space might be used on a daily
basis as office space by clerical workers or for staff meetings.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.018 EMERGENCY DOCUMENTS.
   Administratively, the EOC will house key emergency documents, including town
maps, charts, resources, files, and copies of the town Disaster Preparedness
Plan (DPP).
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.019 COMMUNICATION CENTER.
   The town EOC will also be the key communication center in the town. The town
provides radio base station units that are maintained and operational for
Police, Fire, Rescue, and Public Works. In the event of disaster, it will be
essential that the town EOC be able to communicate by radio with the county
EOC, the Sheriff’s Department, and the county Fire Radio and Highway Patrol
Dispatch Centers. It will also be necessary for the town EOC to maintain radio
contact with local emergency service units at work in the field.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.020 ALERTS AND MOBILIZATION.
   Alerting SOPs for warning and/or mobilizing the Town Manager and the
department heads should be documented in the town DPP. The county Dispatcher
will be assigned the responsibility of alerting key personnel. Mobilization of
the EOC staff will immediately follow notification of a disaster occurrence.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.021 OPERATIONAL READINESS AND RESPONSE REACHED.
   (A)   EOC operational readiness has been reached when:
      (1)   The EOC is activated and operational;
      (2)   The Town Manager and the department heads are mobilized; and
      (3)   Reference materials (maps, SOPs, files) are being reviewed.
   (B)   EOC operational response is in effect when:
      (1)   Reconnaissance by police and fire units has been initiated;
      (2)   Emergency services teams and equipment are at the scene; and
      (3)   Disaster missions have been assigned to all department heads.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.022 OPERATIONS RESPONSIBILITY AND PROTOCOL.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief Administrative Officer (Town Manager) is responsible
for managing response and recovery missions.
      (2)   The town department heads are responsible for the command and
control of emergency teams (and/or support units) in the field.
      (3)   The department heads in the EOC must receive a continuous flow of
information from the disaster scene in order to make valid judgments and
decisions.
      (4)   Major problems incoming from the disaster scene will be visually
posted in the EOC for all department heads to view.
      (5)   Decisions made by department heads in the EOC will need to be
transmitted to operational units at the disaster scene.
      (6)   Decisions made in the EOC will need to be logged down for action or
reference.
      (7)   All personnel (both management and workers in the field) will,
under pressure of an emergency, need to be relieved every eight to 12 hours.
      (8)   A declaration of a State of Emergency may need to be proclaimed
once the emergency condition is known to affect most (or all) of the town.
   (B)   (1)   Mission(s):
         (a)   Primary: Public warning and disaster coordination; and
         (b)   Secondary: Disaster mitigation and recovery.
      (2)   Leadership:
         (a)   Chief Administrative Officer: Town Manager;
         (b)   Disaster Coordinators:
            1.   Police Chief;
            2.   Fire Chief;
            3.   Public Works Director; and
            4.   Rescue Squad Captain.
         (c)   Clerk: Town Clerk.
      (3)   Alerting and mobilization:
         (a)   Alerting: radio, tv, police PA systems, siren;
         (b)   Who alerts leadership: county dispatcher; and
         (c)   Mobilization: Police Department/ Municipal Building, 4396 Hwy.
15/501 947-2331.
      (4)   Emergency response:
         (a)   Task number 1: Warn the public;
         (b)   Task number 2: Mobilize EOC staff;
         (c)   Task number 3: Ensure operational readiness of EOC.
         (d)   Task number 4: Dispatch police and fire investigation units;
         (e)   Task number 5: Initiate community disaster scene;
         (f)   Task number 6: Locate perimeters of disaster scene;
         (g)   Task number 7: Identify routes of ingress and egress;
         (h)   Task number 8: Coordinate emergency services at the scene;
         (i)   Task number 9: Establish key emergency installation, as
required;
         (j)   Task number 10: Ensure effective disaster scene management by
EOC staff;
         (k)   Task number 11: Ensure full use of community resources;
         (l)   Task number 12: Inform the public of disaster operations;
         (m)   Task number 13: Announce a “Declaration of State of Emergency”,
if required, by Board of Commissioners; and
         (n)   Task number 14: Prepare with EOC staff recovery plans.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
EMERGENCY SERVICES
§ 34.035 COMPOSITION.
   The town emergency services include Police, Fire, Public Works Departments,
and the town Rescue Squad.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.036 UNDERSTANDING OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It should be understood that the emergency services (teams, equipment,
and manpower) will automatically respond to a disaster scene immediately upon
notification that an emergency condition exists in the town.
   (B)   The department heads of the town emergency services units are key
staff officers on the Chief Administrative Officer’s (Town Manager’s) Emergency
Operating Center staff. The Town Manager is responsible for coordination of
disaster operations with department heads in the EOC during emergency
conditions.
   (C)   The Town Manager will take the responsibility of establishing radio
communications between the EOC and the disaster scene and will, in addition,
insure the capability of communicating with the County Emergency Communication
Center.
   (D)   The call up of mutual aid, of any kind, by a Department Head or an
emergency service unit will be done with the clear knowledge and understanding
of the Chief Administrative Officer (Town Manager). Mutual aid teams,
equipment, and manpower will be directed to the staging area and will be re-
assigned to disaster duty upon orders of the Town Manager.
   (E)   Finally, the Town Manager will have full responsibility for
commitment, command, and control of service teams and equipment at work at the
disaster scene, including personnel, rest periods, feeding, and replacement
workers in order to insure maximum effective response to the emergency
problems.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.037 POLICE DEPARTMENT DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Mission(s):
      (1)   Primary: Reconnaissance and traffic/crowd control; and
      (2)   Secondary: Security of key locations.
   (B)   Leadership:
      (1)   Police Chief; and
      (2)   Lieutenant.
   (C)   Alerting and mobilization: Police radio and telephone:
      (1)   Alerting: Police radio and telephone; and
      (2)   Mobilization: To the Police headquarters.
   (D)   Emergency response:
      (1)   Task number 1: Warn the public;
      (2)   Task number 2: Mobilize EOC staff;
      (3)   Task number 3: Ensure operational readiness of EOC;
      (4)   Task number 4: Dispatch Police and Fire Inspections Units;
      (5)   Task number 5: Initiate Community Disaster Plan;
      (6)   Task number 6: Locate perimeters of disaster scene;
      (7)   Task number 7: Identify routes of ingress and egress;
      (8)   Task number 8: Coordinate emergency services at scene;
      (9)   Task number 9: Establish key emergency location;
      (10)   Task number 10: Ensure effective disaster scene management by EOC
staff;
      (11)   Task number 11: Ensure full use of community resources;
      (12)   Task number 12: Inform the public of disaster operations;
      (13)   Task number 13: Announce a “Declaration of State of Emergency”, if
required, by the Board of Commissioners; and
      (14)   Task number 14: Prepare with EOC recovery plans.
   (E)   Resources:
      (1)   Manpower: 15 personnel; and
      (2)   Communications:
         (a)   Nine mobile radios, one base station, 12 portable radios,
Frequency: A; and
         (b)   Alternate: cell phones.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.038 FIRE DEPARTMENT DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Mission(s):
      (1)   Primary: Fire/hazardous materials containment’s/rescue; and
      (2)   Secondary: Assist in evacuations.
   (B)   Leadership:
      (1)   Fire Chief;
      (2)   Assistant Chief;
      (3)   Alerting: Paging system; and
      (4)   Mobilization: To Fire Station.
   (C)   Emergency response:
      (1)   Task number 1: Reconnaissance of disaster scene;
      (2)   Task number 2: Rescue;
      (3)   Task number 3: Fire containment;
      (4)   Task number 4: Identification of probable hazardous materials;
      (5)   Task number 5: Assist in evacuation operations;
      (6)   Task number 6: Maintain working liaisons with outside agencies; and
      (7)   Task number 7: Coordinate with Chief Executive of need for a
Declaration of State of Emergency.
   (D)   Service resources:
      (1)   Manpower: 27 volunteer firefighters; and
      (2)   Communication:
         (a)   10 portable radios, one base station, primary frequency:
453.150, secondary frequency: 453.950; and
         (b)   Alternate: cell phones.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.039 RESCUE SQUAD DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Mission(s):
      (1)   Primary: Search, rescue, and transportation of injured; and
      (2)   Secondary: Evacuation operations and EMS related.
   (B)   Leadership:
      (1)   Captain; and
      (2)   First Lieutenant.
   (C)   Alerting and mobilization:
      (1)   Alerting: Paging system;
      (2)   Mobilization: To squad building; and
      (3)   Assistance to town Rescue Squad will be county Emergency Medical
Service and will be called upon when mutual aid is needed.
   (D)   Emergency response:
      (1)   Task number 1: Establish and maintain contact with the EOC;
      (2)   Task number 2: Investigation of disaster scene;
      (3)   Task number 3: Rescue and transport of injured;
      (4)   Task number 4: Provide first aid.
      (5)   Task number 5: Assist in evacuation operations;
      (6)   Task number 6: Maintain working liaison with outside agencies; and
      (7)   Task number 7: Will be the ultimate authority in the field for
medical treatment and evaluation.
   (E)   Service resources:
      (1)   Manpower: Ten rescue personnel; and
      (2)   Communications:
         (a)   Six mobiles, ten portable radios, primary frequency: 155.235,
secondary frequency: 155.205; and
         (b)   Alternate: cell phones.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.040 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Mission(s):
      (1)   Primary: Debris clearance and restoration of roadways; and
      (2)   Secondary: Emergency vehicular rescue and drinking water
procurement.
   (B)   Leadership:
      (1)   Public Works Director;
      (2)   Water/Sewer Crew Leader;
      (3)   Streets Crew Leader; and
      (4)   Water Plant Contacts.
   (C)   Alerting and mobilization:
      (1)   Alerting: Pager system, cell phones; and
      (2)   Mobilization: EOC.
   (D)   Emergency response:
      (1)   Task number 1: Investigation of disaster scene;
      (2)   Task number 2: Locate blocked roadways, damaged bridges, and the
like;
      (3)   Task number 3: Open roadways, damaged bridges, and the like;
      (4)   Task number 4: Remove debris, demolish building hazardous to public
safety;
      (5)   Task number 5: Rescue disabled emergency service vehicles;
      (6)   Task number 6: Maintain a liaison with area construction agencies;
      (7)   Task number 7: Provide town with potable drinking water, if
required.
   (E)   Service resources:
      (1)   Manpower: Six skilled;
      (2)   Communications: One mobile, five portables.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.041 UTILITY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Progress Energy/Central Electric Membership Cooperative.
   (B)   Mission(s): Primary: restoration of electrical service.
   (C)   Leadership:
 
Progress Energy All hours 1-800-419-6356
CEMC            All hours 1-800-446-7752
 
   (D)   Alerting and mobilization:
      (1)   Alerting: By telephone for the EOC; and
      (2)   Mobilization: A representative needed for the EOC.
   (E)   Emergency response:
      (1)   Task number 1: Restoration of electrical power of EOC.
      (2)   Task number 2: Restoration of electrical power in medical
facilities.
      (3)   Task number 3: Restoration of electrical power to town.
   (F)   Progress Energy/CEMC power resources available locally:
      (1)   Manpower: All crews available; and
      (2)   Mutual aid: Many crew available.
(Ord. passed - - 1998)
§ 34.042 TELEPHONE SERVICE DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Century Link.
   (B)   Mission(s):
      (1)   Primary: Emergency telephone capability in the EOC; and
      (2)   Secondary: Restoration of telephone service in town.
   (C)   Leadership:
 
NAME                        PHONES
Liaison: On Call Supervisor 1-800-864-9011
 
   (D)   Alerting and mobilization:
      (1)   Alerting: By telephone or police patroller; and
      (2)   Mobilization: A representative needed for the EOC.
   (E)   Emergency response:
      (1)   Task number 1: Restoration of telephone service in the EOC;
      (2)   Task number 2: Installation of emergency telephone service into
Field Command Post from EOC;
      (3)   Task number 3: Restoration of telephone service at key location(s);
and
      (4)   Task number 4: Restoration of telephone service in the town (as)
directed by the Chief Administrative Officer (Town Manager).
   (F)   Century Link telephone resources available locally:
      (1)   Manpower: All crews available; and
      (2)   Mutual aid: Many crews available.
(Ord. passed - - 1998)
SUPPORT SERVICES
§ 34.055 COMPOSITION.
   The town Support Service includes:
   (A)   Schools; and
   (B)   Churches.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.056 UNDERSTANDING OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It should be understood that the town support service will provide
support or backup for emergency teams operating in the field. Primarily, the
support services will be operating out of installation like schools, churches,
or municipal buildings.
   (B)   The Chiefs of the town support services are key staff officers on the
Chief Administrative Officer’s (Town Manager) Emergency Operating Center staff.
The Chief of the Services, or his or her Deputy, are responsible for
coordinating support services in the EOC during emergency operations.
   (C)   The Chief of a support service is also responsible for the preparation
and management of a Reception Center (school/church) for the purpose of
sheltering evacuees, or a Secondary Aid Station for the handling of casualties
requiring medical aid treatment.
   (D)   It should also be understood that the Chief of support services will
need to work closely as a team with other members of the Town Manager’s EOC
staff in order to provide adequate support during disaster operations.
   (E)   The Chief of a support service will need to take the responsibility to
establish telephone (or radio) communications to and from the Support Services
Centers and the Secondary Aid Stations and the town Emergency Operating Center.
   (F)   The county plan takes precedence over local plans.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.057 PUBLIC SCHOOLS DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Mission(s):
      (1)   Primary: Shelter and/or evacuation of school population; and
      (2)   Secondary: Facilities and equipment as reception center.
   (B)   Leadership: Superintendent.
   (C)   Alerting and mobilization:
      (1)   Alerting: Telephone from Police Dispatch for EOC;
      (2)   Mobilization: To EOC At Municipal Building; and
      (3)   For shelter information on operations, refer to the Emergency
Management Office at 911, 947-2911, or 947-6306.
   (D)   Emergency response:
      (1)   Task number 1: Protection (shelter or evacuation) of school
population;
      (2)   Task number 2: Prepare the school facility for use as a community
reception;
      (3)   Task number 3: Provide initial manpower (staffing) supervision,
maintenance, feeding and housing;
      (4)   Task number 4: Coordinate with proper organizations for extended
mass feeding and personal services to evacuees; and
      (5)   Task number 5: Ensure an active communications link between the
school and EOC.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.058 WARNING AND ALERT CONTACT LIST.
   The warning and alert contact list, copies of which are on file in the
office of the Clerk, is adopted as part of this code of ordinances as fully as
if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
HURRICANE PREPAREDNESS PLAN
§ 34.070 PLAN PURPOSE.
   (A)   The most likely disaster to occur in the town with advance warning is
a hurricane. Therefore, this plan is prepared to cope with hurricanes.
   (B)   Should a hurricane strike the county and the town, the Hurricane
Readiness plan would go into effect. This plan provides guidance to government
officials, emergency services, and other agencies within the county, and would
include the town. It includes the makeup and operation of the Emergency
Operating Center (EOC), handling the media, requesting assistance from state
and federal agencies, and the like.
   (C)   The town’s plan is, therefore, a supplement to the county plan and
deals with the responsibilities of the various departments within the town
should a disaster strike. The Town Manager also serves as the Emergency
Management Coordinator.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.071 ANNUAL STEPS.
   At the beginning of each hurricane season (July), the Town Emergency
Management Coordinator needs to:
   (A)   Review Disaster Plan for correctness;
   (B)   Check all emergency equipment (generators, chain saws, and the like)
for operability; and
   (C)   Check operability of the town Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
located in the Town Hall, including communications.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.072 DUTIES OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR.
   (A)   Alert (72 hours before strike):
      (1)   Convene the Board of Commissioners, the Mayor, the Town Manager,
and department heads to review procedures and reaffirm responsibilities of
individuals;
      (2)   Review evacuation zones, traffic control points, and public shelter
locations;
      (3)   Provide awareness information to the public;
      (4)   Contact the “special needs” citizens to determine their situations
and plans; and
      (5)   Advise the public, and particularly construction projects, to
secure loose materials.
   (B)   Hurricane watch (48 hours prior to strike):
      (1)   Staff and actuate the EOC in the Town Hall;
      (2)   Maintain an update on the storm status and forecast;
      (3)   Test communication equipment and EOC procedures.;
      (4)   Inform all Departments to top off fuel tanks of town vehicles and
emergency stand-by tanks;
      (5)   Begin consideration of possible evacuation;
      (6)   Coordinate planned steps with the county Emergency Management
Coordinator, including having the Town Manager, or his or her designee,
represent the town in the county’s EOC as a member of the control group; and
      (7)   Coordinate with the county for fuel supply.
   (C)   Hurricane warning (24 hours before the strike):
      (1)   Fully activate the town EOC;
      (2)   Determine if evacuation is desirable;
      (3)   Check on “special needs” citizens for status;
      (4)   Stock the town EOC with food, water, ice, and supplies;
      (5)   Place town personnel on call or assigned duties as required;
      (6)   Warn or notify the public of the threat and any planned action,
using PA systems in police cars if necessary; and
      (7)   Complete the payroll process.
   (D)   Strike expected:
      (1)   When a strike is expected, the Board of Commissioners will declare
a state of emergency.
      (2)   In cases where power outages occur, the Board of Commissioners
shall have the authority to impose a curfew. This curfew will be enforced by
the Police Department.
      (3)   No town personnel shall be allowed outside of established shelters
at winds at or above 50 mph sustained.
   (E)   Recovery from the strike:
      (1)   Dispatch the damage assessment team as quickly as conditions
permit;
      (2)   Working with the EOC control group, determine the plan to establish
access to hospital and other public service facilities;
      (3)   Organize the search teams necessary to enter damaged homes and
buildings to look for victims; and
      (4)   There will be four established, one for each of the four quadrants
of town. The first priority of each team will be to clear the roads. Each team
will be provided with equipment.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.073 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Alert (72 hours before strike):
      (1)   Chief to attend meeting called by the Emergency Management
Coordinator;
      (2)   Chief to review evacuation zones, traffic control points, public
shelters, and evacuation times as needed; and
      (3)   Place police personnel on call.
   (B)   Hurricane watch (48 hours before strike):
      (1)   Chief, or his or her designee, joins Emergency Operations Center at
Town Hall;
      (2)   All vehicles will be checked and fueled; and
      (3)   Chief will file a request with the Town EMC, if needed, for
personnel assistance.
   (C)   Hurricane warning (24 hours before strike):
      (1)   Continue presence at Town Hall EOC;
      (2)   Continue patrol of town;
      (3)   Inform public of danger using PA systems;
      (4)   Ensure all vehicles are fueled and operable;
      (5)   Have all officers on call; and
      (6)   Contact elderly and notify them of storm.
   (D)   Strike expected:
      (1)   After state of emergency is declared, put police personnel on 12-
hour shifts with at least two officers on duty at all times;
      (2)   If evacuation is ordered, set up road blocks as needed, other
officers assist with evacuation. Notify residents using PA systems;
      (3)   After evacuation, check town for remaining residents;
      (4)   After the above are complete, all town functions will cease, and
the Chief and one officer will set up an interim command post; and
      (5)   When winds reach 50 mph sustained, police personnel will relocate
to the EOC or shelter.
   (E)   Recovery:
      (1)   Police will assist in damage assessment and building searches as
required;
      (2)   Road blocks will be maintained until damage assessment teams
declare the town safe to re-enter;
      (3)   During re-entry, one officer will remain at the road block if
needed, and others will return to town; and
      (4)   After re-entry, officers will resume patrol and check the town.
   (F)    The Chief of Police has the authority to set curfew times when
necessary due to any event that he or she feels necessary, such as power
outages or high winds, that may endanger citizens or his or her officers and
rescue efforts.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.074 DUTIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Alert (72 hours before strike):
      (1)   Chief to attend meeting called by the Emergency Management
Coordinator;
      (2)   Plans are revised with personnel regarding housing of personnel
during the emergency, placing of fire fighting equipment during the emergency,
and locations of the doors to the parking garage; and
      (3)   Persons responsible for division (A)(2) above are designated.
   (B)   Hurricane watch (48 hours before strike):
      (1)   All trucks and other equipment are refueled and checked for
readiness.
      (2)   The Department will continue to answer calls coming in.
      (3)   Personnel are placed on call, and if requested, will assist in
warning the public.
   (C)   Hurricane warning (24 hours before strike):
      (1)   Maintain fire fighting readiness; and
      (2)   Continue to assist in warning the public.
   (D)   Strike expected:
      (1)   Position fire trucks and door in planned position;
      (2)   Call in personnel needed and house them;
      (3)   Procure supplies as required; and
      (4)   Fill all SCBA bottles.
   (E)   After strike:
      (1)   Inspect the town for potential fire or health hazards;
      (2)   Assist in clearing streets;
      (3)   Reposition fire trucks and doors to normal position;
      (4)   Search and rescue; and
      (5)   Assist in marking street names and buildings.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.075 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE/ FINANCE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Alert (72 hours before strike):
      (1)   Town Clerk and Finance Officer to attend meeting called by the
Emergency Management Coordinator;
      (2)   Organize materials that will be needed if a strike occurs,
including documents necessary to keep track of expenses during the emergency;
and
      (3)   Plan for proper retention of vital records, including backup of
computer files.
   (B)   Hurricane watch (48 hours before strike):
      (1)   Answer phones as usual, reporting to callers as directed by the
Town Manager; and
      (2)   The Town Manager begins acting as the Public Information Officer
(PIO); and
      (3)   Render assistance to other departments as required.
   (C)   Hurricane warning (24 hours before strike):
      (1)   Make all equipment secure; and
      (2)   Assist in preparing in-house personnel in the Town Hall.
   (D)   Strike expected:
      (1)   Make sure vital records are safe and secure;
      (2)   Disperse as directed by the Town Manager; and
      (3)   Issue disaster time sheets and expenditure requisitions to all
departments.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
§ 34.076 DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Alert (72 hours before strike):
      (1)   Public Works Director to attend meeting called by the Emergency
Management Coordinator;
      (2)   Review plans and procedures with personnel;
      (3)   Refuel all vehicles and ensure operability.
   (B)   Hurricane watch (48 hours before strike):
      (1)   Refuel all vehicles and fill all fuel containers;
      (2)   Check all storm drainage canals and culvert inverts for blockages;
      (3)   Place all personnel on stand-by;
      (4)   Test all generators and make sure they are fueled to capacity;
      (5)   Create holding capacity for waste sludge;
      (6)   Ensure vegetative debris collection site is cleared and ready for
use; and
      (7)   Ensure adequate supply of high water and temporary stop signs.
   (C)   Hurricane warning (24 hours before strike): Double check the water and
sewer supply system.
   (D)   Strike expected:
      (1)   Have designated personnel come in, rest on stand-by;
      (2)   Assist other departments as required; and
      (3)   Ensure that CP&L is prepared to handle the sub-station.
   (E)   Recovery:
      (1)   Return the water treatment plant to normal operation as quickly as
possible, once damage is complete;
      (2)   Repair damaged sewer pumping stations and water and sewer lines;
and
      (3)   Start clearing streets as directed by the EMC.
(Ord. passed - -1998)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 35.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town personnel policies, copies of which are on file in the office of
the Clerk, are adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - - 2006)
CHAPTER 36: FEES AND RATES
Section
   
36.01   Fees and rates
§ 36.01 FEES AND RATES.
   An annual privilege license tax is levied on each business conducted within
the town. A copy of the current FY fee schedule may be obtained from the Town
Clerk’s office or municipal building.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
CHAPTER 37: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   General principles underlying the Code of Ethics
   
37.03   Ethical conduct
   
37.04   Acting with integrity
   
37.05   Impropriety
   
37.06   Setting a good example
   
37.07   Openness in Board affairs
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code of Ethics is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards of conduct for the Town Board and to help to determine what conduct
is appropriate in particular cases. It should not be considered a substitute
for the law or for a Board member’s best judgment.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2010)
§ 37.02 GENERAL PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE CODE OF ETHICS.
   (A)   The stability and proper operation of democratic representative
government depend upon public confidence in the integrity of the government and
upon responsible exercise of the trust conferred by the people upon their
elected officials.
   (B)   Governmental decisions and policy must be made and implemented through
proper channels and processes of the governmental structure.
   (C)   Board members must be able to act in a manner that maintains their
integrity and independence, yet is responsive to the interests and needs of
those they represent.
   (D)   Board members must always remain aware that at various times they play
different roles:
      (1)   As advocates, who strive to advance the legitimate needs of their
citizens;
      (2)   As legislators, who balance the public interest and private rights
in considering and enacting ordinances, orders, and the resolutions;
      (3)   As decision-makers, who arrive at fair and impartial quasi-judicial
and administrative determinations.
   (E)   Board members must know how to distinguish among these roles, to
determine when each role is appropriate, and to act accordingly.
   (F)   Board members must be aware of their obligation to conform their
behavior to standards of ethical conduct that warrant the trust of the
constituents. Each official must find within his or her own conscience the
touchstone by which to determine what conduct is appropriate.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2010)
§ 37.03 ETHICAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   Board members should obey all laws applicable to their official
actions as members of the Board. Board members should be guided by the spirit
as well as the letter of the law in whatever they do.
   (B)   At the same time, Board members should feel free to assert policy
positions and opinions without fear of reprisal from fellow Board members or
citizens. To declare that a Board member is behaving unethically because of
disagreeing with that Board member on a question of policy (and not because of
the Board member’s behavior) is unfair, irresponsible, and itself unethical.
   (C)   Board members should endeavor to keep up to date, through the Board’s
attorney and other sources, about new or ongoing legal or ethical issues they
may face in their official positions. This educational function is in addition
to the day-to-day legal advice the Board may receive concerning specific
situations that arise.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2010)
§ 37.04 ACTING WITH INTEGRITY.
   Board members should act with integrity and independence from improper
influence as they exercise the duties of their offices. Characteristics and
behaviors consistent with this standard include the following:
   (A)   Adhering firmly to a code of sound values.
   (B)   Behaving consistently and with respect toward everyone with whom they
interact.
   (C)   Exhibiting trustworthiness.
   (D)   Living as if they are on duty as elected officials regardless of where
they are or what they are doing.
   (E)   Using their best independent judgment to pursue the common good as
they see it, presenting their opinion to all in a reasonable, forthright,
consistent manner.
   (F)   Remaining incorruptible, self-governing, and unaffected by improper
influence while at the same time being able to consider the opinions and ideas
of others.
   (G)   Disclosing contracts and information about issues that they receive
outside of public meetings and refraining from seeking or receiving information
about quasi-judicial matters outside of the quasi-judicial proceedings
themselves.
   (H)   Treating other Board members and the public with respect and honoring
the opinions of others even while the Board members disagree with those
opinions.
   (I)   Not reaching conclusions on issues until all sides have been heard.
   (J)   Showing respect for their offices and not behaving in ways that
reflect on those offices.
   (K)   Recognizing that they are a part of a larger group and acting
accordingly.
   (L)   Recognizing that individual Board members are not generally allowed to
act on behalf of the Board but may only do so if the Board specifically
authorizes it, and that the Board must take official action as a body.
   (M)   Avoiding conflicts of interest.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2010)
§ 37.05 IMPROPRIETY.
   (A)   Board members should avoid impropriety in the exercise of their
official duties. Their official actions should be above reproach. Although
opinions may vary about what behavior is inappropriate, this Board will
consider impropriety in terms of whether a reasonable person who is aware of
all of the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the Board member’s
action would conclude that the action was inappropriate.
   (B)   If a Board member believes that his or her actions, while legal and
ethical, may be misunderstood, the member should seek the advice of the Board’s
attorney and should consider publicly disclosing the facts of the situation and
the steps taken to resolve it.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2010)
§ 37.06 SETTING A GOOD EXAMPLE.
   (A)   Board members should faithfully perform the duties of their offices.
They should act as especially responsible citizens whom others can trust and
respect. They should set a good example for others in the community, keeping in
mind that trust and respect must continually be earned.
   (B)   Board members should faithfully attend and prepare for meetings. They
should carefully analyze all credible information properly submitted to them,
mindful of the need not to engage in communications outside the meeting in
quasi-judicial matters. They should demand full accountability from those over
whom the Council has authority.
   (C)   Board members should be willing to bear their fair share of the
Board’s workload. To the extent appropriate, they should be willing to put the
Board’s interests ahead of their own.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2010)
§ 37.07 OPENNESS IN BOARD AFFAIRS.
   (A)   Board members should conduct the affairs of the Board in an open and
public manner. They should comply with all applicable laws governing open
meetings and public records, recognizing that doing so is an important way to
be worthy of the public’s trust. They should also remember that local
government records belong to the public and not to Board members or their
employees.
   (B)   In order to ensure strict compliance with the laws concerning
openness, Board members should make clear that an environment of transparency
and candor is to be maintained at all times in the government unit. They should
prohibit unjustified delay in fulfilling public record requests. They should
take deliberate steps to make certain that any closed sessions held by the
Board are lawfully conducted and that such sessions do not stray from the
purpose for which they are called.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
      
52.   WORK WITHIN TOWN RIGHTS-OF-WAY; UTILITIES; ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Approved containers required
   
50.03   Burning garbage
   
50.04   Burying of refuse
   
50.05   Accumulation of garbage or refuse prohibited
Collection
   
50.20   Pre-collection practices
   
50.21   Collection schedule
   
50.22   Post-collection practices
   
50.23   Unlawful to damage or displace containers
   
50.24   Bulk/yard debris collections
Bills, Rates, and Charges
   
50.35   Unit charges established
   
50.36   Rates for collection service
   
50.37   Allocation of partial payment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling, or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign,
and other structure, including, but not limited to, excavated earth, tree
stumps, rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber, or any other similar
material used in construction, or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   CURBSIDE PICK-UP. Placing of solid waste in 95-gallon container provided by
Republic Services for pick-up along the street right-of-way.
   DUMPSTER CONTAINER. Large metal container that requires special handling by
garbage truck (either front or rear loading).
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses, and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS UNIT. Any structure that qualifies for curbside pick-up.
   INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Single-family dwelling, mobile home, or
apartment unit.
   REFUSE. All non-putrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows, or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants, or grass.
   WHITE GOODS. Stoves, refrigerators, washing machines.
(Prior Code, § 41.01) (Am. Ord. passed 7-21-2003)
§ 50.02 APPROVED CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit any
garbage or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in
approved containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 41.02)
   (B)   The occupant of every building or premises where garbage and refuse
does or may exist shall use 95-gallon containers provided by Republic Services.
All containers shall be kept in a reasonably clean condition.
(Prior Code § 41.06) (Ord. passed 7-21-2003; amended - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 BURNING GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to any garbage or refuse, including
leaves, for the purpose of disposal.
(Prior Code, § 41.03) (Amended - - )  Penalty, see §
10.99
Editorial Note:
   Extensive state regulations are in effect with respect to the open burning
of trash and refuse; see Department of Environmental Management; Regulations
Governing the Control of Air Pollution.
§ 50.04 BURYING OF REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to bury any refuse for the purpose of disposal unless a
permit has been granted by the town Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 41.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit in approved containers as required
herein.
(Prior Code, § 41.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
COLLECTION
§ 50.20 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom before it is
placed in the container for collection. No container shall be placed next to
the street before 6:00 p.m. on the day prior to collection.
(Prior Code, § 41.07) (Amended - - )  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.21 COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   Garbage and refuse will be collected by the town according to a collection
schedule maintained in the Clerk’s office. The schedule may be periodically
revised and amended by action of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 41.08)
§ 50.22 POST-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   No container shall be allowed to remain next to the street later than 12:00
p.m. on the day after collection.
(Prior Code, § 41.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.23 UNLAWFUL TO DAMAGE OR DISPLACE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace, or to otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or their contents, except by the owner or
with the permission of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 41.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.24 BULK/YARD DEBRIS COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Tree limbs not more than six feet in length, or more than three inches
in diameter with the butt ends facing the street, stacked in a neat pile and
placed next to the street, will be collected according to a collection schedule
maintained in the Clerk's office. There is a one pile per pick up limit and the
pile can be no larger than six feet long, five feet wide and three feet high.
   (B)   Light refuse (leaves, twigs, pine needles and the like) must be
securely contained in plastic bags and will be collected at the curbside
according to a schedule maintained in the Clerk's office. Bags must weigh less
than 50 pounds each, with a 20-bag limit per pick up.
   (C)   No commercially-cut limbs or debris will be accepted.
   (D)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots, nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than six feet in length,
upholstered furniture, mattresses, white goods, carpet or carpet pads, other
heavy objects, or any building material scraps be collected by the town.
   (E)   No waste building materials or lot clearings shall be collected from
houses or other structures under construction or recently completed. In
addition, it shall be unlawful to place any materials listed in division (D)
next to the curbside. Businesses or residents shall arrange to take these items
to the Moore County landfill/solid waste recycling center or contract with a
private firm for the collection of the items.
   (F)   Commercial establishments that generate in excess of three 95-gallon
containers of trash are required to contract with a private firm for a dumpster
and collection.
(Prior Code, § 41.11) (Am. Ord. passed 7- 21-2003; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
BILLS, RATES, AND CHARGES
§ 50.35 UNIT CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   Unit charges are hereby established to recover a portion of the expenditures
associated with solid waste collection, and to establish a fee structure that
is fair and equitable to all citizens.
(Prior Code, § 41.15)
§ 50.36 RATES FOR COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   All individual residential units and business units, including
churches, that qualify for curbside pick-up will be charged a solid waste
collection fee established by the Board.
   (B)   The solid waste collection fee will be itemized and included on the
water bill and will have the same billing cycle, due date, and collection
procedures.
(Prior Code, § 41.16)
§ 50.37 ALLOCATION OF PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-314(b), the town is authorized to specify the
order in which partial payments of bills are to be applied among the various
services covered by a bill for the services.
   (B)   The town does hereby specify that partial payments of bills for
multiple services be applied among the various services in the following
sequence:
      (1)   Past due amounts for trash collection;
      (2)   Past due amounts for sewer;
      (3)   Past due amounts for water;
      (4)   Other amounts for trash collections; and
      (5)   Past due amounts for street lights.
(Prior Code, § 41.25)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Service contract provisions
   
51.003   Application for service
   
51.004   Service classification
   
51.005   Leak Cut-Off Policy
   
51.006   Utility Service Theft, Destruction and Water Meter Tampering Policy
Connections
   
51.015   Dedication of lines
   
51.016   Separate connections required; exceptions
   
51.017   Performance of connection work
   
51.018   Equipment to remain town property
   
51.019   Maintenance of connections
   
51.020   Tampering with system unlawful
Billing Procedures
   
51.035   Calculation of bill; payment due date
   
51.036   Suspension of service
   
51.037   Complaints; adjustments
   
51.038   Access to premises
   
51.039   Modification of rules
   
51.040   System development fees
   
51.041   Reservation of water and sewer system capacity
Water Shortage Conservation
   
51.050   Purpose
   
51.051   Definitions
   
51.052   Declaration of water shortage advisory
   
51.053   Declaration of water shortage alert
   
51.054   Declaration of water shortage emergency
   
51.055   Mandatory conservation
   
51.056   Water shortage rates
Water System Usage
   
51.070   System ownership
   
51.071   Meter maintenance
   
51.072   Type and location of meter
   
51.073   Town responsibility
   
51.074   Consumer responsibility
   
51.075   Mandatory connections; standards
   
51.076   [Reserved]
   
51.077   Police purpose limitations
Sewer System Usage
   
51.090   System ownership
   
51.091   Line and lateral maintenance
   
51.092   Town responsibility
   
51.093   Consumer responsibility
   
51.094   Mandatory connections; standards
   
51.095   County sewer use ordinance compliance
Fats, Oil and Grease
   
51.100   Scope and purpose
   
51.101   Definitions
   
51.102   General interceptor maintenance; record keeping; and grease removal
   
51.103   Mandatory grease traps
Water Extension
   
51.110   Infrastructure
   
51.111   Availability
   
51.112   Town service
   
51.113   Rates
Sewer Extension
   
51.125   Availability
   
51.126   Rates
Water and Sewer Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
51.140   Program adoption
   
51.141   Purpose
   
51.142   Definitions
   
51.143   Red flag identification
   
51.144   Red flag detection
   
51.145   Prevention and mitigation
   
51.146   Administration and updates of program
Control of Backflow and Cross-Connections
   
51.150   Cross-connection control - general policy
   
51.151   Definitions
   
51.152   Right of entry
   
51.153   Elimination of cross-connections: degree of hazard
   
51.154   Installation of assemblies
   
51.155   Testing and repair of assemblies
   
51.156   Facilities requiring protection
   
51.157   Connections with unapproved sources of supply
   
51.158   Fire protection systems
   
51.159   Enforcements
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE. When access is possible within distances as
specified elsewhere herein. Water service is a precondition for sewer service.
   CUL-DE-SAC. Road terminating completely surrounded by subdivided lots with
no possibility for extension.
   IMPROVED STREET. Any street having a wearing surface of concrete, asphalt,
brick, stone, block, tar treatment, or similar hard material.
   LATERAL. Pipe connecting to a sanitary sewer or water main with the line of
adjacent property or extending from the main to the inside of the curb. A
LATERAL is the pipe portion of a service connection.
   LOT. Land associated with any principal dwelling unit or multiple dwelling
units under one ownership.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Area in or adjoining streets, water lines, sewer lines, and
the like, wherein the town has legal authority to install and maintain
utilities.
   SANITARY SEWER. Any piping system that transports by gravity residential
wastewater or polluted industrial wastes, and to which storm, surface, and
ground waters and unpolluted industrial waste are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE AREA. Any area that is not within the area being served by another
municipality or extraterritorial zoning area thereof, or is not physically
separated from the town or its exterritorial zoning thereby.
   SEWER. Sanitary sewer.
   STORM SEWER. Any piping system that collects and transports storm, surface,
and ground water.
   STREET. Public passageway operated and maintained by a public body for which
the public body has a legal authority such as an easement, right-of-way,
dedication, and the like.
   TOWN. The Town of Carthage.
   UNIMPROVED STREET. Any street having a dirt surface.
(Prior Code, § 50.50)
§ 51.002 SERVICE CONTRACT PROVISIONS.
   All provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms and
conditions of any contract whereby the town furnished sewer or water services
to any person, or whereby the town makes any sewer or water connection or
performs any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of water or
sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 50.51)
§ 51.003 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for service shall be made at the Municipal Building
during normal business hours on forms to be provided by the town. All required
connection fees, deposits, and the like will be made at the time of
application.
      (2)   Each renter for water and sewer must make a deposit with the town
in the amount specified in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances at the time service is applied for. This
deposit is refundable when the service is no longer required and all balances
have been paid.
   (B)   The town may reject an application for services as follows:
      (1)   Where service is not available;
      (2)   Where service is to a dwelling that has been declared unfit for
human habitation by a county Building Inspector;
      (3)   Where service will adversely affect existing users, until such time
as corrections can be made to the system;
      (4)   Where the applicant is delinquent in payment of bills incurred for
service previously supplied at any location; and/or
      (5)   At a new structure that has not passed the required plumbing
inspection or does not adhere to provisions of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Lawn irrigation systems shall be protected against backflow by a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device (RPZ) which shall conform
to ASSE (American Society of Sanitary Engineers) 1013, AWWA (American
Waterworks Association) C511, or CSA (Canadian Standards Association) CAN
(Canadian) CSA-864.3, with a relief opening that discharges by air gap above
grade.
(Prior Code, § 50.52)
§ 51.004 SERVICE CLASSIFICATION.
   All services are classified under one category to include residential,
schools, churches, and commercial with the one exception of sales under the
bulk rate for resale to end users.
(Prior Code, § 50.53)
§ 51.005 LEAK CUT-OFF POLICY.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Town of Carthage is not responsible for notifying customers of
leaks; but the town tries to identify them as early as possible and as a
courtesy will attempt to notify the customer to reduce wasted water and save
money for those customers.
      (2)   Each Town of Carthage water/sewer customer will have the
opportunity to monitor their water usage and set leak alerts using our
EyeOnWater (EOW) services. EyeOnWater gives consumers direct access to their
water consumption data, provides tools to help them manage their water use, and
delivers leak alerts and usage trends to customers through email, text messages
or on-smart device notifications.
      (3)   At any time, any customer may also contact the Utility
Administrator at the Town Hall and ask if they have an active leak or what
their consumption is should they choose not to participate with the EyeOnWater
service.
   (B)   Leaks defined.
      (1)   Leaks are classified as one of the following:
         (a)   Town leak. The town is responsible for repair and water usage
due to leaks in the town's right-of-way easement. Town leaks will be adjusted
to remove 100% excess water and 100% excess sewer usage above their average
usage for all impacted bills.
         (b)   Private leak. Customers are responsible for repair and water
usage due to leaks found from the meter to the residence or business. There
will be no water rate adjustments made for private leaks.
      (2)   Please note that the following causes of leaks/high usage will not
be considered for a leak adjustment under any circumstances:
         (a)   Water usage from filling pools;
         (b)   Sewer charges resulting from irrigation or pool fill from a
private service provider;
         (c)   Irrigation head failure;
         (d)   Capping off leaking services in lieu of a repair stopping the
leak;
         (e)   Reoccurring leaks;
         (f)   Leaking fixtures and appurtenances inside or outside of the
structure;
         (g)   Leaks due to failure to properly protect homeowner service pipe
and plumbing from freezing.
   (C)   Leak Cut-Off Policy.
      (1)   The town will attempt to notify customers of major leaks as soon as
they are found to help mitigate water loss and high bills for the customer. All
customers are responsible to maintain up-to-date contact information on their
utility service account.
      (2)   If an attempt is made to contact the customer and the contact
information on file is not accurate, the water/sewer service will be
disconnected to conserve water and prevent high bills. Once the town is
contacted by the customer, the service will then be restarted at the customer's
request and the customer will be responsible for all water consumed.
      (3)   Services disconnected for a leak will not be restarted after
business hours. The service will be reconnected the next business day.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2022)
§ 51.006 UTILITY SERVICE THEFT, DESTRUCTION AND WATER METER TAMPERING POLICY.
   (A)   General provisions. TAMPER means to rearrange, injure, alter,
interfere with, or otherwise prevent from performing a normal or customary
function. Per G.S. § 14-151.1, it is illegal for any unauthorized person
(including a licensed plumber) to alter, tamper with, relocate, willfully
damage, or bypass a water meter provided by the town for the purpose of
measuring and registering water consumption. In accordance with this statute,
no one shall:
      (1)   In any way disable, alter, prevent or destroy a meter, meter
register, or other appurtenances that interrupt or interfere with the meter
accurately performing its measuring function and registering of water usage;
      (2)   In any way alter, cut or remove the meter index seal;
      (3)   Connect any tube, pipe, wire, or other instrument to divert water
with the intent to defraud or deprive the utility from receiving proper charges
or payment for the stolen water;
      (4)   Operate, alter, or prevent the action of a meter, any valves on the
distribution system or stopcock;
      (5)   Opening valves at the curb, hydrants or meter that have been turned
off by utility personnel;
      (6)   Tamper with any property owned and used by the utility to provide
service;
      (7)   Move from one location to another a meter without the permission of
the utility;
      (8)   Take a meter belonging to the utility that has not been assigned to
the location, installed, and authorized for use by the utility.
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Clear evidence of violation on any property on which it is found to
have a meter tampered with in accordance with G.S. § 14-151.1, and capable of
receiving water as a result of the use of any method of diversion, is prima
facie evidence of violation of this section and creates against the person in
whose name such meter is installed, tenant, or occupant a presumption of intent
to tamper or divert water.
      (2)   A notice of violation may be mailed or delivered to the customer,
and service is subject to immediate cut-off upon evidence of violation in
accordance with G.S. § 14-151.1.
   (C)   Tampering and theft charges.
      (1)   Illegal reconnection of service: $100.
      (2)   Tamper or removal civil penalty: $500.
      (3)   In addition, the customer will be subject to a payment for repair
or labor and replacement parts due to any damages sustained. Customers can view
the town's current charges for damage and replacement of metering parts (see
fees listed below). The next occurrence would double the fine and any cost of
damages.
      (4)   The tamper fee of $100 applies to customers who unlawfully cut-on
service after disconnection due to nonpayment of a utility bill. This action
can cause the removal of the water meter and the customer will be subject to a
charge of $500 to have the meter replaced.
   (D)   Bill adjustments for theft. The utility reserves the right to adjust
the customer's current bill and the bills for the past 12 months’ water usage
upon evidence of violation or as determined by the utility of occurrence of
theft of service. If the estimated amount of service that was stolen cannot be
reasonably determined, the customer's usage will be set at two to four times
the minimum bill, as set on a case-by-case basis by the utility, according to
the facts of each case.
   (E)   Restoration of service.
      (1)   Service to customers will not be restored until all payment for the
following charges are immediately received by the utility:
         (a)   Tamper and theft;
         (b)   Bill adjustment;
         (c)   Repair;
         (d)   Labor and replacement of meter and/or parts;
         (e)   Reinstatement of service charge.
      2)   Service will be reinstated only during regular working hours,
Monday-Friday, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except in the case of an
emergency. In addition, discontinuance of service by the utility shall not
release the customer from liability for payment for service already received.
   (F)   Obstruction of a water meter. It is a violation to intentionally block
or obstruct the meter. Utility customers are responsible for cutting back and
removing any bushes, trees, plants, sod, landscaping, rocks, etc. that may
conceal or obstruct access to the water meter. Noncompliance and failure to
maintain accessibility can result in customer liability for costs incurred to
remove the obstruction(s).
 
Meter Parts Replacement Fees
Meter             $140
Cellular endpoint $140
Meter box         $50
Meter box lid     $25
Labor             12% of cost
 
(Ord. passed - - )
CONNECTIONS
§ 51.015 DEDICATION OF LINES.
   (A)   No water or sewer lines connected to the town system will be accepted
and maintained by the town until the lines are dedicated to and become the
property of the town. No connection or extension may be made to the town water
or sewer system except with proper notice to and approval of the town. No
connection or extension shall be accepted by the town unless the connection or
extension meets town standards and the property tied on complies with
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any property receiving water or sewer service must be annexed into the
town.
(Prior Code, § 50.55) (Ord. passed 7-16-2007) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every house, apartment, trailer, building, condominium, or
independently owned or plumbed unit requiring a water or sewer connection
pursuant to this chapter shall be separately and independently connected,
except in those cases where laterals have already been laid in asphalt or
improved streets from the main, provision being made for the house or building,
in which case the connection may be made for the house or building, in which
case the connection may be made to an existing lateral. Minimum size for
multiple service laterals are one inch for water and six inches for sewer or
larger as may be required by the town in specific situations. When two or more
houses or units are connected with the same water lateral, a separate meter
shall be provided for each house or unit.
   (B)   Temporary exceptions may be granted on a case-by-case basis by the
Board of Commissioners for units not in compliance herewith on the date of the
adoption of this chapter. Units not meeting the separate meter requirement may
continue until the time major or substantial building changes or repairs occur.
(Prior Code, § 50.56)
§ 51.017 PERFORMANCE OF CONNECTION WORK.
   (A)   (1)   Upon approval of any application for a water or sewer
connection, the town shall do the excavating, lay the pipe, install a meter
where necessary, make the connection to the main, fill the excavation and
replace the surface of the street. The construction of the lines and laterals
for the connection of water or sewer pipes on any lot with water and sewer
pipes in any street, and the necessary excavation therefore, shall be done only
by the town.
      (2)   An exception to this division may be approved by the Director of
Public Works where the installation of the lines and laterals is done by a
developer or his or her agent and where the water and sewer extension plan, as
well as detailed plans and specifications, have been approved by the Director
of Public Works. The connection work will be subject to inspection by the
Director of Public Works, or his or her agents, and shall not be accepted by
the town unless approved by the Director of Public Works. All cost of
inspection shall be borne by the developer.
   (B)   No work shall commence without prior notification being given to the
Director of Public Works.
   (C)   All work not done by the town shall be done by a licensed utility
contractor. A copy of the utility contractor’s state license must be provided
along with insurance or bond.
(Prior Code, § 50.57) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 EQUIPMENT TO REMAIN TOWN PROPERTY.
   All meters, meter boxes, pipes, and other equipment furnished and used by
the town in installing any water or sewer connections shall be and remain the
property of the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.58)
§ 51.019 MAINTENANCE OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the word CONNECTION shall be
construed to be that portion of pipe between the meter and the main when
applied to water lines, and that portion of pipe between the property owner’s
lot line and main when applied to sewer lines.
   (B)   Water connections shall be kept in repair by the town and at the
expense of the town. Every leak or break in a sewer connection shall be
repaired by the town at the expense of the town, but every obstruction therein
shall be removed by the owner or occupant of the property served by the
connection at the expense of the owner or occupant, except where it is
determined by the Director of Public Works, or his or her agent, that the
stoppage was caused by tree roots from trees located on public right-of-way or
other specific pipe failures or faults also located on town property.
(Prior Code, § 50.59)
§ 51.020 TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to cut, break, obstruct, damage,
change, alter, or otherwise interfere with any water pipe or water main or
hydrant or sewer pipe or water tank or anything being a part of the waterworks
or sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.60) Penalty, see §
51.999
BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 51.035 CALCULATION OF BILL; PAYMENT DUE DATE.
   (A)   All usage charges shall be calculated on the basic monthly water
readings, subject to the complaint procedure set forth in §
51.037. Water and sewer charges herein will be deemed to be one bill.
   (B)   All bills are due and payable upon receipt and are delinquent after
the twenty-fifth of each month. After the fifth of the following month, the
service is subject to immediate disconnection and a penalty charge.
   (C)   IRRIGATION METERS, which are defined as meters that are not connected
to any device or appliance that is connected to the sewerage system and that on
which no sewer charge is imposed, may not be disconnected seasonally. In order
to continue for the sewer charge exemption, the user must pay a minimum water
bill year around.
(Prior Code, 50.54) (Amended - - )
§ 51.036 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, FRAUD and ABUSE shall include, but not
be limited to any action by any person or corporation which:
      (1)   Will potentially or in fact cause financial damage to the town
Water and Sewer System;
      (2)   Will potentially or in fact have any adverse effects on the public
health of the community; or
      (3)   Will potentially or in fact damage any water lines, meters,
hydrants, or other appurtenances of the water and sewer system.
   (B)   In addition to any other reasons or conditions under which service may
be discontinued, service to any location may be disconnected for the following
reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud and abuse;
      (2)   Customer’s willful disregard of town rules;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town’s
control;
      (5)   Legal procedures; and/or
      (6)   Direction of public authorities.
(Prior Code, § 50.61)
§ 51.037 COMPLAINTS; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills. The town’s water bill shall state:
         (a)   The due date and telephone number of the person in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable;
         (b)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill; and
         (c)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, service is
subject for immediate disconnection.
      (2)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his, her or its bill has
the right to a hearing at which time he or she may present, orally or in
writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the person in charge of
utility billing. This person shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued, and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint. If not satisfied, the customer may
appeal to the Board of Commissioners at the next scheduled meeting.
      (3)   The person in charge of utility billing shall be authorized to
establish a payment plan for excessively large bills due to water lost to known
or unknown causes. The term of the repayment shall not exceed six months, and
the monthly repayment amount shall not be less than the customer’s normal bill.
      (4)    When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid along with the penalty
charge. All provisions of this division shall apply to any past due bill not
paid by 5:00 p.m. of the last business day before the cut-off day.
   (B)   If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the town’s
representative, or if the meter fails to register correctly, or is stopped by
any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his or
her previous bills and/or from other proper data.
   (C)   The person in charge of utility billing, when bill is either unpaid or
was paid under protest and not resolved, may reduce the amount of a bill for
water lost to know or unknown causes as follows.
      (1)   Water charge adjustment. The base usage shall be determined by the
average of the gallon usages within the year. If adequate history is not
available to determine the customer’s base usage as indicated, the best
available information shall be used. To qualify for an adjustment, the usage in
question must be at least 10,000 gallons, or twice the average consumption. The
total gallons used will be subtracted from the average usage to provide the
wasted amount. The wasted amount will be charged an amount set by the town.
      (2)   Sewer charge adjustment.
         (a)   Calculated same as water adjustments;
         (b)   The timing of the water loss discovery may cover two billing
periods; therefore, an adjustment may be made for two consecutive billing
periods.
      (3)   Limitation on adjustment. Only one adjustment for an account shall
be made during any fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 50.62) (Amended - - )
§ 51.038 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access at all reasonable
hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing
town property, inspecting piping, reading or testing meters, or for any other
purpose in connection with the town service and facilities.
   (B)   Each consumer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the town a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any property
owned or controlled by the consumer wherever the perpetual easement and right-
of-way is necessary for the town-owned water facilities and lines so as to be
able to furnish service to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 50.64)
§ 51.039 MODIFICATION OF RULES.
   (A)   No promise, agreement, or representation of any employee of the town
shall be binding upon the town except as it shall have been agreed upon in
writing, signed and accepted by the Town Manager.
   (B)   No modification of rates, charges, or any of the rules and regulations
shall be made by any agent of the town except as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.63)
§ 51.040 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES. A charge or assessment for service imposed with
respect to new development to fund costs of capital improvements necessitated
by and attributable to such new development, to recoup costs of existing
facilities which serve such new development, or a combination of those costs,
as provided in G.S. Ch. 162A, Art. 8. The term includes amortized charges,
lump-sum charges, and any other fee that functions as described by this
definition regardless of terminology. The term does not include any of the
following:
         (a)   A charge or fee to pay the administrative, plan review, or
inspection costs associated with permits required for development.
         (b)   Tap or hookup charges for the purpose of reimbursing the local
government unit for the actual cost of connecting the service unit to the
system.
         (c)   Availability charges.
         (d)   Dedication of capital improvements on-site, adjacent, or
ancillary to a development absent a written agreement providing for credit or
reimbursement to the developer pursuant to G.S. §§160A-320, 160A-499 or G.S.
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3D.
         (e)   Reimbursement to the town for its expenses in constructing or
providing for water or sewer utility capital improvements adjacent or ancillary
to the development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially
responsible for such expenses; however, such reimbursement shall be credited to
any system development fee charged as set forth in G.S. §162A-207(c).
   (B)   Time of collection.
      (1)   Land subdivision. For new development involving the subdivision of
land, the system development fee shall be collected by the town at the later of
either of the following:
         (a)   The time of plat recordation; or
         (b)   When water or sewer service is committed by the town.
      (2)   Other new development. For all other new development, the town
shall collect the system development fee at the earlier of either of the
following:
         (a)   The time of application for connection of the individual unit of
development to the service or facilities; or
         (b)   When water or sewer service is committed by the town.
(Ord. 18-11, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 51.041 RESERVATION OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM CAPACITY.
   No water or sewer system capacity is reserved unless and until the system
development fees are paid, or the town enters into a written agreement for the
reservation.
(Ord. 18-11, passed 9-24-2018)
WATER SHORTAGE CONSERVATION
§ 51.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to declare the official phases of a water
supply shortage, and to provide for the implementation of voluntary and
mandatory water conservation measures throughout the service area of the town
in the event a shortage is declared.
(Prior Code, § 50.65)
§ 51.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALERT.
      (1)   The raw water supply (stream flow) is consistently below seasonal
averages. If the raw water supply continues to decline, the supply may not
adequately meet normal needs; or
      (2)   Due to mechanical failure or limitations of water treatment plant
capacity, adequate water supplies cannot be maintained and their conditions may
be sufficient to cause a water shortage.
   CRISIS.
      (1)   The raw water level is below the level necessary to meet normal
needs; or
      (2)   Due to mechanical failure or limitations of water treatment plant
capacity, a water shortage is subject to occur.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the town water
distribution system and for which a regular charge is made.
   EMERGENCY.
      (1)   The raw water supply is below the level necessary to meet normal
needs and serious water shortages exist; or
      (2)   Due to mechanical failure or the limitations of water treatment
plant capacity a prolonged water shortage is subject to occur.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to, failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the town for treatment, or any water introduced by
the town into its distribution system.
   WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY. Conditions exist which indicate the potential for
water supply shortages.
   WATER USE CLASSES. Established as follows:
      (1)   CLASS 1: ESSENTIAL WATER USES.
         (a)   Domestic use: Water necessary to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation;
         (b)   Health care facilities: Patient care and rehabilitation; and
         (c)   Public use: Fire fighting, health and public protection
purposes, if specifically approved by health officials and/or the governing
bodies of the health officials.
      (2)   CLASS 2: SOCIALLY OR ECONOMICALLY IMPORTANT USES OF WATER.
         (a)   All domestic uses other than those included in Classes 1 and 3.
Home water use, including kitchen, bathroom, and laundry use;
         (b)   Outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private):
            1.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance of livestock;
            2.   Water by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary to
maintain stock, to the extent that sources of water other than the town are not
available or feasible to use;
            3.   Watering of golf course greens;
            4.   Use of water at a minimum rate necessary to implement re-
vegetation following earth moving, where the vegetation is required pursuant to
an erosion and sedimentation control plan adopted pursuant to law or
regulation, to the extent that sources of water other than the town are not
available or feasible to use; and
            5.   Water use by public gardens of nation, state, or regional
significance where necessary to preserve specimens, to the extent that sources
of water other than the town are not available or feasible to use.
         (c)   Filling and operation of swimming pools:
            1.   Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and
rehabilitation; and
         (d)   Washing off motor vehicles: Commercial car and truck washes,
unrestricted hours of operation;
         (e)   Commercial laundromats: Unrestricted hours of operation; and
         (f)   Restaurants, clubs, and eating establishments: Unrestricted
hours of operation.
      (3)   CLASS 3: NON-ESSENTIAL USES OF WATER.
         (a)   Ornamental purposes: Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls;
         (b)   Outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private): Gardens,
lawns, parks, golf courses, playing fields, and other recreational areas;
         (c)   Exceptions:
            1.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber,
or the maintenance of livestock;
            2.   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock, to the extent that sources of water other than the town are
not available or feasible to use;
            3.   Water of golf greens; and
            4.   Certain testing and drills by the Fire Department, if in the
interest of public safety and approved by the town.
         (d)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants: Exceptions: As needed to ensure
public safety, and approved by health officials and the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.65)
§ 51.052 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the town finds that a potential shortage of water supply is
indicated, such that the adequate potable water supplies cannot be maintained,
whether the shortage is caused by drought, mechanical failure, limitations of
or water treatment plant capacity, it shall be empowered to declare a Water
Shortage Advisory. The Director of Public Works shall monitor the supply and
demands of the water customers of the town to employ voluntary water
conservation measures to limit water use (especially Class 3 users) and to
eliminate the waste of water. The declaration of a Water Shortage Advisory and
statement by the Public Works Director shall be published in newspapers of
general circulation in the town, and may be publicized by any other appropriate
method.
(Prior Code, § 50.66)
§ 51.053 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   (A)   Whenever the town finds the raw water supply is below the level
necessary to meet normal needs, and if the supply continues to decline and it
may not be adequate to meet normal needs, and if there is due to mechanical
failure or limitations of treatment plant capacity that adequate supplies of
potable water cannot be maintained, the Town Manager shall be empowered to
declare a water shortage alert.
   (B)   The town shall continue to encourage voluntary water conservation
measures as defined in the advisory declaration.
   (C)   The town shall impose a ban on all Class 3 water uses for the duration
of the shortage, until it is declared to have ended by the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 50.67)
§ 51.054 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the town finds the raw water supply is below the level necessary to
meet normal needs and those serious shortages exists, the Town Manager shall be
empowered to declare a water shortage emergency. Class 1 essential uses shall
be identified as targets for voluntary conservation initiatives, Class 2
socially or economically important uses shall be banned in addition to the
Class 3 non-essential uses. These restrictions shall be enforced until the
emergency is declared ended by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.68)
§ 51.055 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to impose mandatory
restrictions, as described in this section below, on the usage of water
obtained directly or indirectly from the water distribution system of the town
by declaring a water distribution crisis. After receiving written
recommendations from the Director of Public Works, the restrictions may be
imposed by the Town Manager, upon consideration of all of the following
factors:
      (1)   Pressure at monitoring locations of the town water distribution
system;
      (2)   Ability to re-fill water storage tanks of the town water
distribution system;
      (3)   Ability to maintain an amount of water in the ground level storage
tanks at the water treatment plant which is adequate for fire protection
purposes; and
      (4)   Ability to maintain water pressure in every portion of the town
water distribution system.
   (B)   A water distribution crisis may be implemented by the Town Manager by
signing a notice of declared water distribution crisis. The declared water
distribution crisis will begin on the effective date and time specified in the
notice and the restrictions imposed thereby will apply during the times
specified in the notice.
   (C)   During a declared water distribution crisis, each of the following
users of water obtained directly or indirectly from the town water distribution
system are prohibited during the time specified in the notice of declared water
distribution crisis:
      (1)   Watering any grass, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, garden, or other
vegetation; provided however, that any person or entity regularly engaged in
the business of the sale of plants shall be permitted to water only plants that
are being grown for sale;
      (2)   Filling, re-filling, or otherwise adding water to any swimming
pool;
      (3)   Washing, rinsing, or cleaning an exterior wall, floor, or paved
areas;
      (4)   Washing, rinsing, or cleaning any automobile, truck, van,
motorcycle, or other motor vehicle or trailer; provided, however, that any
person or entity engaged in the business of washing vehicles may be exempt from
this prohibition.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Manager may impose the restrictions in division (C)(3)
above at all times or during limited times as the Town Manager and the Director
of Public Works determine to be appropriate. The times will be set forth in
this notice of declared water distribution crisis.
      (2)   The Town Manager may modify the times of restricted water use by
signing an amended notice of Declaration of water distribution crisis.
      (3)   Restrictions on water use from the Department of Public Works may
be terminated by the Town Manager by signing a notice of Termination of
declared water distribution crisis.
      (4)   Any restrictions or terminated restrictions must be posted at the
Municipal Building, relative post offices, or any other designated places by
law or the Board of Commissioners. All notices cannot be enforced or terminated
for a period of 12 hours after posting.
      (5)   All notices posted shall state the time and date of posting.
      (6)   The terms TOWN MANAGER and DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS are to be
constructed to include the designee of the Town Manager or Director of Public
Works.
(Prior Code, § 50.69)
§ 51.056 WATER SHORTAGE RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage as provided in this
chapter, the Board of Commissioners shall have authority to adopt shortage
water rates designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   The rates may provide for:
      (1)   Increasing block rates: lighter charges per unit for increasing
usage.
      (2)   Uniform unit rate: uniform charges for water usage per unit of use.
      (3)   Excess demand surcharge: extra charges for use in excess of a
specified level.
(Prior Code, § 50.70)
WATER SYSTEM USAGE
§ 51.070 SYSTEM OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   The entire water system, including all elements thereof, up to and
including the meters and meter vaults, are the property of the town subject
only to encumbrances entered into by the Board. New lines installed by others
must be properly conveyed to the town free of encumbrances.
   (B)   Water lines beyond the meter connection are the property of and
responsibility of parties other than the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.74)
§ 51.071 METER MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All water meters will be kept in proper operating order by the town.
The cost of all repairs will be borne by the property owner being served,
except where repairs are necessitated by normal wear, in which instance the
cost of the repairs shall be borne by the town. The town may, at its option,
have repairs done by outside agents and the costs ascribed as indicated above.
   (B)   Any property owner may request that the accuracy of his or her meter
be verified.
(Prior Code, § 50.75)
§ 51.072 TYPE AND LOCATION OF METER.
   (A) Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only. Each
consumer’s service must be separately metered at a single delivery and metering
point.
   (B)   (1)   Master meters may be required to serve apartment buildings,
duplex buildings, and the like. Master meters (yard meters) may also be
permitted at condominium or planned development housing complexes to purchase
water to be used for watering purposes which will not be emptied into the
town’s sewer system.
      (2)   The minimum bill for any master meter except yard meters installed
shall be the number of units served times the established minimum charge for a
single-family dwelling, with consumption over the minimum thus established to
be computed and billed at the applicable rate.
   (C)   Water used for purposes that do not result in the water entering the
town’s sanitary sewer system may be metered by a separate yard meter.
(Prior Code, § 50.76)
§ 51.073 TOWN RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The town shall run a service line from its distribution line to the
property line where the distribution line runs immediately adjacent and
parallel to the property to be served, and for which a tap-on fee then in
effect for each size of meter has been collected.
   (B)   The town may install its meter at the property line or, at the town’s
option, on the consumer’s property or in a location mutually agreed upon.
   (C)   When two or more meters are to be installed on the same premises for
different consumers, they shall be closely grouped and each clearly marked so
as to designate to which consumer it applies.
   (D)   The town does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
consumer’s piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefore.
   (E)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from water, water pressure, or the use of water on the consumer’s
premises, unless the damage results directly from negligence on the part of the
town. The town shall not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting
from any defect in the piping, fixtures, or appliances on the consumer’s
premises. The town shall not be responsible for negligence of third persons or
forces beyond the control of the town resulting in any interruption of service.
(Prior Code, § 50.77)
§ 51.074 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A) Piping on the consumer’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s lines or mains.
   (B)   If the consumer’s piping on consumer’s premises is so arranged that
the town is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of metering
will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   Consumer shall provide a suitable place on their premises for placing
a meter that will be unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter
reader.
   (D)   The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve on the
consumer’s side of the meter, the town to provide a like valve on the town’s
side of the meter.
   (E)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer at their expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the town’s rules and regulations, and in full compliance with
the sanitary regulations of the state Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   (F)   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for the town’s property
placed on the consumer’s premises, and shall permit access to it only by
authorized representatives of the town.
   (G)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the
cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to
the town, and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the
consumer.
   (H)   The amount of the loss or damage to the cost of repairs shall be added
to the consumer’s bill, and if not paid, service may be discontinued by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 50.78) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.075 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any new house, lot, or subdivision in the town limits or
extraterritorial jurisdictional limits shall be required to connect onto town
water if possible.
(Prior Code, § 50.79)
   (B)   The following standards are mandatory and may not be waived, except by
specific Board action and will apply universally after the date of the adoption
hereof.
      (1)   All water lines will be constructed, tested, sterilized and
operated in total compliance with state Department of Environment and Natural
Resources and standards established by the Director of Public Works;
      (2)   The designated representative of the town will personally witness
pressure and sterilization tests at applicant’s expense.
      (3)   All lines accepted by the town will have plans and specifications
approved by and bear the permit stamp of the state Department of Environment
and Natural Resources. All work will be done in strict compliance with the
approved plans.
(Prior Code, § 50.80)
§ 51.076 [RESERVED].
§ 51.077 POLICE PURPOSE LIMITATIONS.
   During any period in which an ordinance is in effect limiting or prohibiting
certain types of water usage in the town or in the one-mile extraterritorial
area for police purposes, the same limits or prohibitions will apply to water
customers located outside the town’s one-mile police jurisdictional area.
Whoever is found to be violating the limits or prohibitions in effect shall
have the water service to the property where the violation took place turned
off. The water service shall not be reinstated until a disconnect/reconnect
charge has been paid in full. The Town Manager is hereby authorized to
terminate service completely to any property whose owner repeatedly violates
the limits or prohibitions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 50.82) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWER SYSTEM USAGE
§ 51.090 SYSTEM OWNERSHIP.
   The entire sewer system, including all elements thereof up to and including
the meters and meter vaults, pump stations, force mains, service laterals while
on public property, but specifically excluding individual pumping stations,
grease traps, and service laterals on private property, are the property of the
town subject to encumbrances entered into by the Board. New lines installed by
others must be properly conveyed to the town free of encumbrances in a manner
satisfactory to the Town Attorney. No lines may be placed in service prior to
the Town Attorney certifying as to the sufficiency of the transfer.
(Prior Code, § 50.97) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 LINE AND LATERAL MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the town to maintain all sewer lines,
service laterals (to the property line only) and sewage pumping stations
(excluding individual pumping stations) in an operable condition. The town
disclaims all responsibility for all stoppages created in public rights-of-way
other than from broken or leaking town pipes or tree roots on public rights-of-
way, whether in lines or laterals. Any stoppages cleared or repaired by the
town will be billed to the responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 50.98)
§ 51.092 TOWN RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The town will, on new taps, run a four-inch or six-inch lateral to the
property line at a point convenient to the town, from a sewer line on public
property, if the line exists, at the rates set forth in the town’s fee
schedule. The town will install a clean-out at the property line. On existing
services, the town reserves the right to install a clean-out at the property
line.
   (B)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from sewage or the use of sewers on the consumer’s premises, unless
the damage results directly from negligence on the part of the town. The town
shall not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting from any defect in
the piping, fixture, or appliance on the consumer’s premises. The town shall
not be responsible for negligence of third persons or forces beyond the control
of the town resulting in any interruption of service.
(Prior Code, § 50.99)
§ 51.093 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer at the consumer’s expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the town’s rules and regulations and in full compliance with
the sanitary regulations of the state Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   (B)   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for the town’s property
placed on the consumer’s premises and shall permit access to it by authorized
representatives of the town.
   (C)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the
cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the
town, and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer.
   (D)   The amount of the loss or damage to the cost of repairs shall be added
to the consumer’s bill, and if not paid, service may be discontinued by the
town.
   (E)   Only water purchased from the town through water meters shall be
introduced into the sewerage system. All existing business and residences
receiving sewer service will comply with this division.
(Prior Code, § 50.60) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Any property that is platted, any parcel of real
estate for which a person is seeking a building permit, conditional use permit,
or special use permit, or any parcel on which a structure exists or which is
subdivided.
      UNIT. Any structure except structures that are merely appurtenant to a
primary structure, or any portion of a single structure that is used by an
entity different from any other entity using that structure. Except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter, any developed property that is:
         (a)   Within the town;
         (b)   Within the town’s extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction; or
         (c)   Connected to the town’s water system.
   (B)   Sewerage pumping stations for subdivisions are not considered
unreasonable. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to relieve any requirements
because gravity flow is not possible.
   (C)   Whenever public sewer service is not available to any property inside
or outside of the town, the private sewer system installed shall be approved by
the county Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.01)
   (D)   The following standards are mandatory and may not be waived except by
specific Board action, and will apply universally after the date of the
adoption hereof.
      (1)   All sewer lines will be constructed, tested, sterilized, and
operated in total compliance with state Department of Environment and Natural
Resources and standards established by the Director of Public Works.
      (2)   The designated representative of the town will personally witness
infiltration, exfiltration, and mandrel tests at applicant’s expense wherever
new lines are installed.
   (E)   All lines accepted by the town will have plans and specifications
approved by and bear the permit stamp of the state Department of Environment
and Natural Resources. All work will be done in strict compliance with the
approved plans.
(Prior Code, § 51.03)
§ 51.095 COUNTY SEWER USE ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE.
   All sewerage discharges will comply with the county sewer use ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) Penalty, see §
51.999
FATS, OIL AND GREASE
§ 51.100 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from the contribution and accumulation of fats,
oils, and greases into the sewer system from industrial, commercial and
institutional establishments, particularly food preparation and serving
facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS.  Those establishments primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption
foodstuffs, and that use one or more of the following preparation activities:
cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling, boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any
other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES. Organic polymer compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures in 40
C.F.R. § 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are sometimes referred
to herein as “grease” or “greases.”
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining waterborne
greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also
serve to collect solids, generated by and from food preparation activities,
prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection
and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS AND INTERCEPTORS are sometimes referred to
herein as “grease interceptors.”
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPACITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and its
ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include establishments engaged in the preparation and serving of cold
dairy and frozen foodstuffs.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the town, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or discharge
of wastewater into the publicly owned treatment works (POTW), including persons
who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge
hauled wastewater.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.102 GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE; RECORD KEEPING; AND GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by the
Public Works Director or his or her designee. Grease interceptors shall be
installed at the user's expense, when such user operates a cooking
establishment. Grease interceptors may also be required in non-cooking or cold
dairy and frozen food establishments, and other industrial, commercial or
institutional establishments when they are deemed necessary by the Public Works
Director for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease.
   (B)   No user shall allow wastewater to discharge from any grease
interceptor in a concentration that exceeds 250 milligrams per liter.
   (C)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design and capacity
approved by the Public Works Director, or his or her designee, and shall be
readily and easily accessible for user cleaning and town inspection. No grease
interceptor shall have a total capacity of less than 1,000 gallons unless
otherwise approved by The Public Works Director.
   (D)   All grease interceptors shall be subject to review, evaluation and
inspection by the Public Works Director, or his or her designee, during normal
working hours.
      (1)   Results of inspections will be made available to facility owner,
leaseholder or operator.
      (2)   There shall be no charge for an annual inspection.
      (3)   However, a grease trap re-inspection fee of $50 shall be charged.
   (E)   All such grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste contents as required in order to maintain minimum design
capacity or effective volume of the grease interceptor, but not less than every
30 days. Waste removed from grease interceptors shall not be discharged into
the town's sanitary sewer system, The user shall be responsible for the
disposal of such waste.
   (F)   The user shall maintain a written service record of the grease
interceptor maintenance for three years. The service records shall be available
to the Public Works Director upon request.
   (G)   No non-grease laden sources shall be connected to sewer lines intended
for grease interceptor service.
   (H)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
installed over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow and infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.103 MANDATORY GREASE TRAPS.
   All services with the capacity for preparing or processing food, with the
sole exception of private, single-family, in-unit, residential units, will be
required to install, at their own expense on their property, a suitable grease
trap. The property owner is solely responsible for operating the grease trap.
The property owner is solely responsible for operating the grease trap.
Existing service may delay installation for 180 days after notification by the
Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Am. Ord. passed 8-16-2010) Penalty, see § 51.999
WATER EXTENSION
§ 51.110 INFRASTRUCTURE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town that water supply and wastewater
collection services be extended to every residence and business within the town
limits. It is also the policy of the town that neither service shall be
extended to customers outside the town limits unless the property owner
petitions for annexation of his or her entire property, and the annexation is
approved by the Board of Commissioners. If both services are available at the
property, the property owner must connect to both services. For purposes of
this section, the term AVAILABLE shall mean that a water or wastewater line is
within 100 feet of any portion of the property. No new wells may be drilled
within the town limits; however, existing wells may be used for outside use
such as irrigation.
   (B)   Infrastructure fees, often referred to as TAP FEES and IMPACT FEES,
shall be levied by the town as payment for the construction and maintenance of
the water and/or wastewater facilities and systems. Although the fee covers the
actual cost of making the water and/or wastewater connections, it also helps
pay for present and future infrastructure costs.
   (C)   Developers of subdivisions and commercial facilities are required to
install water and wastewater lines within the subdivisions and developments,
and shall be required to provide the lines, pumps, and related facilities as
are necessary to provide the services. Plans for the facilities must be
presented to the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners, for subdivision and
developments required to be reviewed by these boards, or to the Public Works
Director, for smaller developments or subdivisions not requiring Planning Board
or Board of Commissioners approval.
   (D)   Developers may be reimbursed only for the costs of providing water
meters and for making physical connections to customers, if approved by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, it is the policy
of the town to consider proposals by property owners for the provision of water
and wastewater services to out of town locations, providing that the services
can be reasonably provided and that the property owners agree to provide for
the installation of all lines, pumps, and related materials as are necessary to
provide the services. All services shall be subject to out of town rates.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 51.111 AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   All existing or future users within the town limits or its existing
area may be served by the town water system, subject only to the availability
of capacity.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to protect its water system by the
imposition of requirements on and inspection of any system tied into the town
system. Particular attention will be placed on systems capable of applying
pressure to the line either through well pumps, fire pumps, industrial pumping,
elevated storage, or natural line elevation.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works is directed to evaluate or have evaluated
by competent professionals each system tied in, and apply suitable requirements
such as check valves, control valves, backflow preventers, rate of flow
controllers, or other devices, to protect the safety, adequacy, and quality of
the town water system. Any system tied into the town system will cooperate with
the Director of Public Works by providing drawings of the system and securing
access to any point on the system including storage and customer’s premises for
the purpose of inspections at times he or she may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 51.12)
§ 51.112 TOWN SERVICE.
   (A) The town recognizes the responsibility to provide all existing water
users within the town corporate boundary with an adequate supply of water
within the constraints of money and budgets.
   (B)   The town will attempt to provide water service to all existing homes
and new homes not currently served on existing open and dedicated streets
within the constraints of money and budgets. The priority for new services will
be less than for existing customers.
   (C)   Any property receiving water or sewer service must be annexed into the
town.
   (D)   Extensions in and to subdivisions and new streets or unopened streets
will be at the developer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 51.13)
   (E)   Where the town requires line sizes larger than six inches or larger
than proper sizing for the purpose of the applicant making the extension, the
town may elect to participate in the cost.
(Prior Code, § 51.14)
   (F)   The Board will approve or disapprove all extensions.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Am. Ord. passed 7-16-2007)
§ 51.113 RATES.
   The rate structure set forth in the town’s fee schedule will apply to all
users existing or as may be extended to or served under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.11)
SEWER EXTENSION
§ 51.125 AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   Sewer service is available only in the town sewer service area as
shown on a map on record in the office of the Director of Public Works. It may
be amended from time to time. Where water service from the town is available,
as defined herein, it is required that all water discharged into the sewer
system be purchased from the town.
   (B)   Sewer extensions to or in property being subdivided or streets being
opened shall be by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Am. Ord. passed 7-16-2007)
§ 51.126 RATES.
   The rate structure set forth in the town’s fee schedule will apply to all
users existing or as may be extended to or served under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.16)
WATER AND SEWER IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 51.140 PROGRAM ADOPTION.
   The town Water and Sewer Utility developed the Identity Theft Prevention
Program (“Program”) pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission’s Red Flags Rule
(“Rule”), which implements § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions
Act of 2003, 16 C.F.R. § 681.2. This Program was developed with oversight and
approval of the Town Manager and Board of Commissioners. After consideration of
the size and complexity of the Utility’s operations and account systems, and
the nature and scope of the Utility’s activities, the Town Manager and Board of
Commissioners determined that this Program was appropriate for the town Water
and Sewer Utility, and therefore approved this Program on October 20, 2008.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 51.141 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Under the Red Flag Rule, every financial institution and creditor is
required to establish an identity theft prevention program tailored to its
size, complexity, and the nature of its operation.
   (B)   Each program must contain reasonable policies and procedures to:
      (1)   Identify relevant red flags for new and existing covered accounts,
and incorporate those red flags into the program;
      (2)   Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program;
      (3)   Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to prevent
and mitigate identity theft; and
      (4)   Ensure the program is updated periodically to reflect changes in
risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from identity
theft.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 51.142 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   Any account the Utility offers or maintains primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or transactions;
and
      (2)   Any other account the Utility offers or maintains for which there
is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of
the Utility from identity theft. All the Utility’s accounts that are individual
utility service accounts held by customers of the utility whether residential,
commercial, or industrial are covered by the Rule.
   CREDITORS. Finance companies, automobile dealers, mortgage brokers, utility
companies, and telecommunications companies. Where non-profit and government
entities defer payment for goods or services, they, too, are creditors.
   IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Telephone number;
      (4)   Social Security number;
      (5)   Date of birth;
      (6)   Government issued driver’s license or identification number;
      (7)   Alien registration number;
      (8)   Government passport number;
      (9)   Employer or taxpayer identification number;
      (10)   Unique electronic identification number;
      (11)   Computer’s internet protocol address; or
      (12)   Routing code.
   IDENTITY THEFT. Fraud committed using the identifying information of another
person.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Creditor subject to the Rule requirements.
   RED FLAG. Pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 51.143 RED FLAG IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   In order to identify relevant red flags, the Utility considers the
types of accounts that it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to open
its accounts, the methods it provides to access its accounts, and its previous
experiences with identity theft. The Utility identifies the following red
flags, in each of the listed categories.
   (B)   (1)   Notifications and warnings from credit reporting agencies red
flags:
         (a)   Report of fraud accompanying a credit report;
         (b)   Notice or report from a credit agency of a credit freeze on a
customer or applicant;
         (c)   Notice or report from a credit agency of an active duty alert
for an applicant; and
         (d)   Indication from a credit report of activity that is inconsistent
with a customer’s usual pattern or activity.
      (2)   Suspicious documents red flags:
         (a)   Identification document or card that appears to be forged,
altered or inauthentic;
         (b)   Identification document or card on which a person’s photograph
or physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the
document;
         (c)   Other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check
appears forged); and
         (d)   Application for service that appears to have been altered or
forged.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information red flags:
         (a)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with
other information the customer provides (example: inconsistent birth dates);
         (b)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with
other sources of information (for instance, an address not matching an address
on a credit report);
         (c)   Identifying information presented that is the same as
information shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
         (d)   Identifying information presented that is consistent with
fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
         (e)   Social Security number presented that is the same as one given
by another customer;
         (f)   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that of
another person;
         (g)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying
information on an application when reminded to do so (however, by law, Social
Security numbers must not be required); and
         (h)   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
      (4)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account red flags:
         (a)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder’s name;
         (b)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
         (c)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use
(example: very high activity);
         (d)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
         (e)   Notice to the Utility that a customer is not receiving mail sent
by the Utility;
         (f)   Notice to the Utility that an account has unauthorized activity;
         (g)   Breach in the Utility’s computer system security; and
         (h)   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
      (5)   Alerts from others red flag: Notice to the Utility from a customer,
identity theft victim, law enforcement, or other person that it has opened or
is maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 51.144 RED FLAG DETECTION.
   (A)   In order to detect any of the red flags identified in §
51.143 above associated with the opening of a new account, Utility personnel
will take the following steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person
opening the account:
      (1)   Require certain identifying information, such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, driver’s license, or other identification;
      (2)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
      (3)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
and
      (4)   Independently contact the customer.
   (B)   In order to detect any of the red flags identified in §
51.143 above for an existing account, Utility personnel will take the following
steps to monitor transactions with an account:
      (1)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information
(in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
      (2)   Verify the validity of requests to change billing addresses; and
      (3)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 51.145 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION.
   (A)   In the event Utility personnel detect any identified red flags, the
personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending on the
degree of risk posed by the red flag:
      (1)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Not open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (7)   Notify the Program Administrator for determination of the
appropriate step(s) to take;
      (8)   Notify law enforcement; and/or
      (9)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   In order to further prevent the likelihood of identity theft occurring
with respect to Utility accounts, the Utility will take the following steps
with respect to its internal operating procedures to protect customer
identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Ensure complete and secure destruction of paper documents and
computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
      (5)   Request only the last four digits of Social Security numbers (if
any);
      (6)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
      (7)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for utility purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 51.146 ADMINISTRATION AND UPDATES OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   This program will be periodically reviewed and updated to
reflect changes in risks to customers and the soundness of the Utility from
identity theft. At least every six months, the Program Administrator will
consider the Utility’s experiences with identity theft situation, changes in
identity theft methods, changes in identity theft detection and prevention
methods, changes in types of accounts the Utility maintains, and changes in the
Utility’s business arrangements with other entities.
      (2)   After considering these factors, the Program Administrator will
determine whether changes to the program, including the listing of red flags,
are warranted. If warranted, the Program Administrator will update the program
or present the Board of Commissioners with his or her recommended changes, and
the Board of Commissioners will make a determination of whether to accept,
modify, or reject those changes to the program.
   (B)   (1)   Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating this
program lies with an Identity Theft Committee for the Utility. The Committee is
headed by a Program Administrator who may be the head of the Utility or his or
her appointee. Two or more other individuals appointed by the head of the
Utility or the Program Administrator comprise the remainder of the committee
membership. The Program Administrator will be responsible for the program
administration, for ensuring appropriate training of Utility staff on the
program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the detection of red flags
and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity theft, determining which
steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in particular circumstances,
and considering periodic changes to the program.
      (2)   Utility staff responsible for implementing the program shall be
trained either by or under the direction of the Program Administrator in the
detection of red flags, and the responsive steps to be taken when a red flag is
detected. (The Utility may include in its program how often training is to
occur. The program may also require staff to provide reports to the Program
Administrator on incidents of identity theft, the Utility’s compliance with the
program, and the effectiveness of the program.)
      (3)   In the event the Utility engages a service provider to perform an
activity in connection with one or more accounts, the Utility will take the
following steps to ensure the service provider performs its activity in
accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent,
and mitigate the risk of identity theft:
         (a)   Require, by contract, that service providers have policies and
procedures in place; and
         (b)   Require, by contract, that service providers review the
Utility’s program and report any red flags to the Program Administrator.
      (4)   For the effectiveness of identity theft prevention programs, the
red flag rule envisions a degree of confidentiality regarding the Utility’s
specific practices relating to identity theft detection, prevention, and
mitigation. Therefore, under this program, knowledge of the specific practices
are to be limited to the Identity Theft Committee and those employees who need
to know them for purposes of preventing identity theft. Because this program is
to be adopted by a public body and thus publicly available, it would be
counterproductive to list these specific practices here. Therefore, only the
program’s general red flag detection, implementation, and prevention practices
are listed.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
CONTROL OF BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.150 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL - GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Introduction. 
      (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to eliminate all cross-
connections within the public potable water supply operated by or under the
authority of the Town of Carthage (hereinafter the "Town").
      (2)   This chapter complies with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act
(P.L. 93-523), the North Carolina State Administrative Code (Title 15 A,
Subchapter 8C.0709), and the North Carolina State Building Code (Vol. IT), as
they pertain to cross-connection within the public water supply.
      (3)   In accordance with G.S. § 162A-9.1, the town is authorized and
empowered to adopt this subchapter.
   (B)   Objective of ordinance. The specific objectives of this subchapter are
as follows:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its consumers'
water system such contaminants, waterborne health hazards, and other
significant pollutants that could backflow into the public water system;
      (2)   To eliminate or control existing cross-connections, actual or
potential, between the consumer' potable water system and non-potable water
system, plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems; and
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-contamination
control that will systematically and effectively control all actual or
potential cross-connections that are installed in the future.
   (C)   Designation of responsibility.
      (1)   Health agency's responsibility.
         (a)   The North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources (Division of Environmental Health) has the responsibility for
promulgating and enforcing laws, rules, regulations, and policies applicable to
all water purveyors in the State of North Carolina in carrying out an effective
Cross-Contamination Control Program.
         (b)   The Division of Environmental Health also has the primary
responsibility of ensuring that the water purveyor operates a public potable
water system free of actual or potential sanitary hazards including unprotected
cross-connections. The Division of Environmental Health also has the
responsibility of ensuring that the water purveyor provides an approved water
supply at the service connection to the consumer's water system, and further,
that the purveyor requires the installation, testing, and maintenance of an
approved backflow prevention assembly on the service connection when required.
      (2)   The Town of Carthage.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the town is the water
purveyor and is responsible for ensuring a safe water supply begins at the
source and includes all of the public water distribution system, including the
service connection, and ends at the point of delivery to the customer's water
system. In addition, the town shall exercise reasonable vigilance to ensure the
consumer has taken the proper steps to protect the public water system. The
town will determine the degree of hazard or potential hazard to the public
potable water system, the degree of protection required, and will ensure proper
containment protection through an ongoing inspection program. The town will
identify all facilities where approved backflow protection assemblies are
required to be installed.
         (b)   When it is determined that a backflow prevention assembly is
required for the protection of the public system, the town shall require the
consumer, at the consumer's expense, to install an approved backflow prevention
assembly at the service connection, to test immediately upon installation, and
thereafter at a frequency determined by the town, to properly repair and
maintain assembly or assemblies and to keep adequate records of each test and
subsequent maintenance and repair, including materials and/or replacement
parts.
      (3)   Plumbing Inspector's responsibility.
         (a)   The Public Works Director of the town shall have the
responsibility to review building plans, inspect plumbing as it is installed,
and shall have the explicit responsibility of preventing cross-contaminations
from being designed and built into the plumbing system within the town. Where
the review of building plans suggests or detects the potential for cross-
contamination being made an integral part of the plumbing system, the Director
has the responsibility, under the North Carolina Building Code, for requiring
that such cross-contaminations be either eliminated or provided with backflow
prevention equipment approved by the North Carolina State Building Code.
Furthermore, any cross-connections must meet the requirements of this
subchapter.
         (b)   The plumbing inspector's responsibility begins at the point of
delivery downstream of the first installed backflow prevention assembly and
continues throughout the entire length of the consumer's water system. The
inspector should inquire about the intended use of water at any point where it
is suspected that a cross-contamination might be made or where one is actually
called for by the plans. When a cross-contamination is discovered, it shall be
mandatory that a suitable backflow prevention assembly - approved by the North
Carolina Building Code, North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources and the town - be required by the plans and be properly installed.
      (4)   Consumer's responsibility. The consumer has the primary
responsibility of preventing pollutants and contaminants from entering his or
her potable water system or the public potable water system. The consumer's
responsibility starts at the point of delivery from the public potable water
system and includes all of his or her water system. The consumer, at his or her
expense, shall install, operate, test, and maintain approved backflow
prevention assemblies and shall maintain accurate records of tests and repairs
made to backflow prevention assemblies for a minimum period of three years. The
records shall be on forms approved by the town and shall include the list of
materials or replacement parts used. Following any repair, overhaul, or
relocation of an assembly, the consumer shall have it tested to ensure that it
is in good operating condition and will prevent backflow. Tests, maintenance,
and repairs of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a Certified
Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester.
      (5)   Certified Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester responsibility.
         (a)   When employed by the consumer to test, repair, overhaul, or
maintain backflow prevention assemblies, a Certified Backflow Prevention
Assembly Tester (Tester) will have the following responsibilities:
            1.   The Tester will be responsible for making competent
inspections and for repairing, or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies
and making reports of such repairs to the consumer and the town on forms
approved by the town.
            2.   The Tester shall include the list of materials and of
replacement parts used.
            3.   The Tester shall be equipped with and be competent to use all
the necessary tools, gauges, manometers, and other equipment necessary to
properly test, repair, and maintain backflow assemblies.
            4.   It will be the Tester's responsibility to ensure that original
manufactured parts are used in the repair of or replacement of parts in
backflow prevention assemblies.
            5.   It will be the Tester's further responsibility not to change
the design, material or operational characteristics of an assembly during the
repair or maintenance without prior approval of the town.
            6.   The Tester shall perform the work and be responsible for the
competency and accuracy of all tests and reports.
            7.   The Tester shall maintain such records for a minimum period of
three years.
         (b)   All Certified Backflow Prevention Assembly Testers much obtain
and employ backflow prevention assembly test equipment which has been evaluated
and approved by the town. All test equipment shall be registered with the town.
All test equipment shall be checked for accuracy annually, calibrated if
necessary, and certified to the town as to the calibration, employing a method
acceptable to the town.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.151 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP (AG). A physical separation between the free-flowing discharge end
of a water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel. An
APPROVED AIR GAP shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel in no case less than
one inch (2.54 cm).
   APPROVED CHECK VALVE. 
      (1)   A check valve that is drip-tight in the normal direction of flow
when the inlet pressure is at least one psi and the outlet pressure is zero.
      (2)   The check valve shall permit no leakage in a direction to the
normal flow. The closure element (e.g. clapper, poppet, or other design) shall
be internally loaded to promote rapid and positive closure.
      (3)   An approved check valve is only one component of an approved
backflow prevention assembly (i.e. pressure vacuum breaker, double-check valve
assembly, double-check detector assembly, reduced pressure principle assembly,
or reduced pressure principle detector assembly). These devices must have met
the design performance standards of the American Society of Sanitary Engineers
(ASSE), the American Water Works Association (AWWA), or the Foundation for
Cross Connection Control and the Hydraulic Research of the University of
Southern California and approved by the town.
   ATMOSPHERIC TYPE VACUUM BREAKER (AVB) or NON-PRESSURE TYPE VACUUM BREAKER. A
device containing a float-check, a check seat, and an air inlet port. The flow
of water into the body causes the float to close the air inlet port. When the
flow of water stops the float falls and forms a valve against back-siphonage
and at the same time opens the air inlet port to allow air to enter and satisfy
the vacuum. A shutoff valve immediately upstream may be an integral part of the
device, an atmospheric vacuum breaker is designed to protect against a non-
health hazard (isolation protection only) under a back-siphonage condition
only.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor's approved public water supply shall be considered as
an auxiliary water supply. These waters may be contaminated or polluted or they
may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the
water purveyor does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. An assembly used to prevent backflow into a consumer or public
potable water system. The type of assembly used should be based on the degree
of hazard either existing or potential (as defined herein). The types are:
      (1)   Double-Check valve assembly (DCVA);
      (2)   Double Check Detector Assembly (Fire System) (DCDA);
      (3)   Pressure Vacuum Breaker (PVB);
      (4)   Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly (RP); and
      (5)   Reduced Pressure Principle-Detector Assembly (Fire System) (RPDA).
   BACKPRESSURE. Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system (by
pump, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure) above the supply
pressure at the point of consideration (delivery) which would cause or tend to
cause, a reversal of the normal direction of flow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. A reversal of the normal direction of flow in the pipeline
due to a reduction in system pressure which causes sub-atmospheric pressure to
exist at a site in the water system.
   CERTIFIED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER or TESTER. A person who has
proved their competency to the satisfaction of the town. Each person who is
certified to make competent tests, or to repair, overhaul, and make reports on
backflow prevention assemblies shall be knowledgeable of applicable laws,
rules, and regulations, shall be a licensed plumber, or have at least two years
experience under and be employed by a North Carolina licensed plumber or
plumbing contractor, or have equivalent qualifications acceptable to the town,
and must hold a valid "certificate of completion" from an approved training
program in the testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies recognized
by the town.
   CONSUMER. Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving water from the
town.
   CONSUMER’S POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. That portion of the privately owned potable
water system lying between the point of delivery and point of use and/or
isolation protection. The system will include all pipes, conduits, tanks,
receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances used to produce, convey,
store, or use potable water.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Includes any water system commencing at the point
of delivery and continuing throughout the consumer's plumbing system located on
the consumer's premises, whether supplied by the public potable water or an
auxiliary water supply. The system may be either a potable water system or an
industrial piping system.
   CONTAINMENT. Preventing the impairment of the public potable water supply by
installing an approved backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water which creates a
potential or actual hazard to the public health through the introduction of
hazardous or toxic substances or waterborne health hazards in the form of
physical or chemical contaminants or biological organisms and pathogens.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected actual or potential connection, or
structural arrangement between a public or a consumer's water system and any
other source or system through which it is possible to introduce any
contamination or pollution, other than the intended potable water with which
the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable
sections, swivel or changeover devices, and other temporary or permanent
devices through which or because of which "backflow" can or may occur are
considered to be cross-connections.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Shall be derived from the evaluation of conditions within
a system which can be classified as either a "pollutional" (non-health) or a
"contamination" (health) hazard.
   DOUBLE-CHECK DETECTOR ASSEMBLY (DCVA). A specially designed assembly
composed of a line-size approved double-check valve assembly with a specific
bypass water meter and a meter-sized approved double-check valve assembly. The
meter shall register (in U.S. gallons) accurately for very low rates of flow
and shall show a registration for all rates of flow. This assembly shall only
be used to protect against a non-health hazard (i.e., pollutant). Device must
be approved by the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research.
   DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA). An assembly composed of two
independently acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves attached at each end of the assembly and fitted with properly located
test cocks. The assembly shall only be used to protect against a non-health
hazard (i.e. pollutant). Device must be approved by the Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research.
   HEALTH AGENCY. The North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources.
   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical,
chemical, biological, pathogenic or toxic nature to the public or consumer's
potable water system to such a degree or intensity that there would be a danger
to health. Examples of waterbome health hazards include but are limited to:
      (1)   Physical: radioisotopes/radionuclides;
      (2)   Chemical: lead, mercury, and other heavy metals, organic compounds,
other toxins and hazardous substances; and
      (3)   Biological: microorganisms and pathogens like Cryptosporidium,
typhoid, cholera and E. Coli.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, or non-health hazard if introduced into a
public or consumer potable water system. Such fluids may include but are not
limited to: process waters, chemicals in fluid form, acids and alkalis, oils,
gases, etc.
   INDUSTRIAL PIPING SYSTEM. A system used by the consumer for transmission,
conveyance, or storage of any fluid, solid, or gaseous substance other than
approved water supply. Such a system would include all pipes, conduits, tanks,
receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances used to produce, convey, or
store substances which are or may be polluted or contaminated.
   ISOLATION. 
      (1)   The act of confining a localized hazard within a consumer's water
system by installing approved backflow prevention assemblies.
      (2)   Disclaimer: The town may make recommendations, upon facility
inspection, as to the usages of isolation devices/ assemblies, but does not
assume or have responsibility whatsoever for such installations.
   NON-HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the quality of the
public or the consumer's water system. A non-health is one that, if introduced
into the public water supply system could be a nuisance to water customers but
would not adversely affect human health.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. Shall generally be at the back side of the meter, where
the meter or backflow prevention assembly (non-metered fire systems) is
located. The consumer shall be responsible for all water piping and control
devices located on the consumer's side of the point of delivery.
   POLLUTION. An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such water for domestic use.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the quality or the
potability of the public or the consumer's water system but which would not
constitute a health or a system hazard, as defined. The maximum degree or
intensity of pollution to which the potable water system could be degraded
under this definition would cause a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable
or could cause minor damage to the system or its appurtenances.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources (NCDENR).
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (PVB). An assembly containing an independently
operating internally loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded
air inlet valve located in the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly
is to be equipped with properly located test cocks and tightly closing shutoff
valves attached at each end of the assembly. The assembly is designed to
protect against a health hazard (i.e., containment) under a back-siphonage
condition only. Device must be approved by Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control and Hydraulic Research.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
operated as a public utility, under a current NCDENR permit, to supply water
for public consumption or use. This system will include all sources,
facilities, and appurtenances between the source and the point of delivery such
as valves, pumps, pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and
appurtenances used to convey, treat, or store potable water for public
consumption or use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RP). An assembly
containing within its structure a minimum of two independently acting approved
check valves, together with a hydraulically operating, mechanically
independent, pressure deferential relief valve located between the check valves
and at the same time below the first check valve. The first check valve reduces
the supply pressure to a predetermined amount so that during normal flow and at
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the checks shall be less than
the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the pressure
differential relief valve, by discharging to atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check less than the supply pressure.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE- DETECTOR ASSEMBLY (RPDA). A specially designed
assembly composed of a line-size approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly with a specific bypass water meter and a meter-sized
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly. The meter
shall register (in U.S. gallons) accurately for very low rates of flow and
shall show a registration for all rates of flow. This assembly shall be used to
protect against a health hazard (i.e., containment) or a non-health (i.e.,
pollutant). Device must be approved by the Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control and Hydraulic Research.
   SERVICE CONNECTIONS. The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system, i.e., where the town loses jurisdiction and
control over the water at its point of delivery to the consumer's water system.
   UNAPPROVED WATER SUPPLY. A water supply which has not been approved for
human consumption by the NCDENR.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water
system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner, operator, or grantor of authority to operate a
public potable water system providing an approved water supply to the public.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.152 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Upon presentation of proper credentials and identification, authorized
representatives from the town shall have the right to enter any building,
structure, or premises during normal business hours, or at any time during the
event of an emergency to perform any duty imposed by this subchapter. Those
duties may include sampling and testing of water, or inspections and
observations of all piping systems connected to the public water supply. Where
a consumer has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the consumer
shall make necessary arrangements with the security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, town personnel will be permitted to
enter without delay for the purpose of performing specific responsibilities.
Refusal to allow entry for these purposes may result in discontinuance of water
service.
   (B)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the town any pertinent
information regarding the water supply system on such property where cross-
connections and backflows are deemed possible.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.153 ELIMINATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS: DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   (A)   When cross-connections are found to exist, the owner, his or her
agent, occupant, or tenant will be notified in writing to disconnect the same
within the time limit established by the town. The degree of protection
required and maximum time allowed for compliance will be based upon the
potential degree of hazard to the public water supply system.
   (B)   If, in the judgement of the town, an imminent health hazard exists,
water service to the building or premises where a cross-connection exists may
be terminated unless an air gap is immediately provided, or the cross-
connection is immediately eliminated.
   (C)   Cross-connections with private wells or other auxiliary water supplies
require immediate disconnection.
   (D)   All facilities that pose a potential health hazard to the potable
water system must have a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly within 60 days of notification by the town.
   (E)   All industrial and commercial facilities not identified as a "health
hazard" shall be considered non-health hazard facilities. All non-health hazard
facilities must install a double-check valve assembly within 90 days of
notification by the town.
   (F)   Water mains served by the town, but not maintained by the town, shall
be considered cross-connections, with degree of hazard to be determined by the
town. Degree of protection shall be based upon the degree of hazard, as
determined by the town.
   (G)   In the event that the Cross- Connection Control Representative does
not have sufficient access to every portion of a private water system (i.e.,
classified research and development facilities; federal government property) to
allow a complete evaluation of the degree of hazard associated with such
private water systems, an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly shall be required as a minimum protection.
   (H)   No person shall fill special use tanks or tankers containing
pesticides, fertilizers, other toxic chemicals or their residues from the
public water system except at a town approved location equipped with an air gap
or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly properly
installed on the public water system.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.154 INSTALLATION OF ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the specifications furnished by the town and the manufacturer's
installation instructions and/or in the latest edition of the North Carolina
Building Code (particularly Table 608.1 of the North Carolina Plumbing Code),
whichever is most restrictive.
   (B)   All new construction plans and specifications, when required by the
North Carolina Building Code and the North Carolina Division of Environmental
Health, shall be made available to the town for review and approval and to
determine the degree of hazard.
   (C)   Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the assembly shall be the
responsibility of the consumer.
   (D)   All double-check valve assemblies must be installed in drainable pits
wherever below-ground installation is necessary, in accordance with detailed
specifications provided by the town. Double-check valve assemblies may be
installed in a vertical position with prior approval from the town, provided
the flow of water is in an upward position.
   (E)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies must be
installed in a horizontal position (unless specifically designed for vertical
installation) and in a location in which no portion of the assembly can become
submerged in any substance under any circumstance. Pit and/or below grade
installations are prohibited.
   (F)   The installation of any backflow prevention assembly which is not
approved by the town must be replaced by one which is approved.
   (G)   The consumer shall make sure all backflow prevention assemblies are
working properly upon installation and must furnish the following information
to the town within 15 days after a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer (RP), double-check valve assembly (DCVA), pressure vacuum breaker
(PVB), double-check detector assembly (DCDA), or reduced pressure principle
detector assembly (RPDA) is installed:
      (1)   Service address where assembly is located;
      (2)   Owner (and address, if different from service address);
      (3)   Description of assembly's location;
      (4)   Date of installation;
      (5)   Installer (include name, plumbing company represented, plumbers
license number);
      (6)   Type of assembly and size of assembly;
      (7)   Manufacturer, model number, serial number; and
      (8)   Test results/ report.
   (H)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, provisions shall
be made for a "parallel installation" of backflow prevention assemblies. The
town will not accept an unprotected bypass around a backflow preventer. Bypass
lines will have at least the same degree of protection as the backflow
preventer being bypassed.
   (I)   Upon notification by the town, the consumer shall install the
appropriate containment assembly not to exceed the following timeframe:
      (1)   Health hazard: 60 days; or
      (2)   Non-health hazard: 90 days.
   (J)   Following installation, all RP, DCVA, PVB, DCDA, and RPDA are required
to be tested by a Certified Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester within ten
days.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.155 TESTING AND REPAIR OF ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a Certified
Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester approved by the town. Such tests are to be
conducted upon installation and annually thereafter, or at a frequency
established by the town. A record of all testing and repairs is to be retained
by the consumer for a minimum of three years. Copies of the records must be
provided to the town within ten business days after the completion of any
testing and repair work.
   (B)   Any time that repairs to backflow prevention assemblies are deemed
necessary, whether through annual or required testing, routine inspection by
the consumer, or by the town, such repairs must be completed within a specified
time in accordance with the degree of hazard. In no case shall this time period
exceed:
      (1)   Health hazard facilities: seven days; and
      (2)   Non-health hazard facilities: 21 days.
   (C)   All backflow prevention assemblies with test cocks are required to be
tested annually, or at a frequency established by the town.
   (D)   All Certified Backflow Prevention Assembly Testers must obtain and
employ backflow prevention assembly test equipment which has been evaluated and
approved by the town. All test equipment shall be registered with the town. All
test equipment shall be checked for accuracy annually, calibrated if necessary,
and certified to the county as to the calibration employing a method acceptable
to the town. See §
51.150(C)(5).
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer or Certified Backflow Prevention
Assembly Tester to submit any record to the town that is false or incomplete in
any respect. It shall be unlawful for any consumer or Certified Tester to fail
to submit to the town any record which is required by this subchapter. Such
violations may result in the enforcement actions in §
51.159.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.156 FACILITIES REQUIRING PROTECTION.
   (A)   Approved backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on the
service line to any facility that the town has identified as having a potential
for backflow.
   (B)   (1)   The following types of facilities or services have been
identified by the town as having a potential for backflow of non-potable water
into the public water supply system. Therefore, an approved backflow prevention
assembly may be required on all such services according to the degree of hazard
present. Other types of facilities or services not listed below may also be
required to install approved backflow prevention assemblies if determined
necessary by the town. As a minimum requirement, all commercial services will
be required to install a double-check valve assembly, unless otherwise listed
below.
      (2)   Abbreviations:
         (a)   DCVA = Double-Check Valve Assembly.
         (b)   RP = Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly.
         (c)   DCDA = Double-Check Detector Assembly.
         (d)   RPDA = Reduced Pressure Detector Assembly.
         (e)   AG = Air Gap.
         (f)   PVB = Pressure Vacuum Breaker.
      (3)   Minimum requirements.
         (a)   Automotive service stations, dealerships, etc:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (b)   Auxiliary water system:
            1.   Approved Public/Private Water System: DCVA.
            2.    Unapproved Public/Private Water System: AG.
            3.   Used Water and Industrial Fluids: RP.
         (c)   Bakeries:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (d)   Beauty shops/barber shops:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (e)   Beverage bottling plants: RP.
         (f)   Breweries: RP.
         (g)   Buildings: Hotels, apartment houses, public and private
buildings or other structures having unprotected cross-connections:
            1.   (Under five stories) No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   (Under five stories) Health Hazard: RP.
            3.   (Over five stories) All: RP.
         (h)   Canneries, packing houses, and rendering plants: RP.
         (i)   Chemical plants: Manufacturing, processing, compounding or
treatment: RP.
         (j)   Chemically contaminated water systems: RP.
         (k)   Commercial carwash facilities: RP.
         (l)   Commercial greenhouses: RP.
         (m)   Commercial sales establishments (department stores, malls,
etc.):
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (n)   Concrete/asphalt plants: RP.
         (o)   Dairies and cold storage plants: RP.
         (p)   Dye works: RP.
         (q)   Film laboratories: RP.
         (r)   Fire systems one- third-inch to two inches: RP.
         (s)   Fire systems two and one half inches to ten inches: RP.
         (t)   Fire trucks: RP.
         (u)   Hospitals, medical buildings, sanitariums, morgues, mortuaries,
autopsy facilities, nursing and convalescent homes, medical clinics, and
veterinary hospitals: RP.
         (v)   Industrial facilities:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (w)   Laundries:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: (i.e., dry cleaners): RP.
         (x)   Lawn irrigation systems (split taps):
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: (booster pumps, chemical systems): RP.
         (y)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing, fabrication plants:
RP.
         (z)   Mobile home parks:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (aa)   Nail salons: RP.
         (bb)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties: RP.
         (cc)   Pest control (extermination and fumigating): RP.
         (dd)   Power plants: RP.
         (ee)   Radioactive materials of substance-plants or handling
facilities: RP.
         (ff)   Residential:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (gg)   Restaurants:
            1.   No Health Hazard: DCVA.
            2.   Health Hazard: RP.
         (hh)   Restricted, classified, or other closed facilities: RP.
         (ii)   Sand and gravel plants: RP.
         (jj)   Schools and colleges: RP.
         (kk)   Sewage and storm drain facilities: RP.
         (ll)   Swimming pools: RP.
         (mm)   Water facilities and industries: RP.
   (C)   All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection and
approval by the town.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.157 CONNECTIONS WITH UNAPPROVED SOURCES OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of water
not approved by the NCDENR to the water system supplied by the town. Any
connections allowed by the town must be in conformance with the backflow
prevention requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   In the event of contamination or pollution of a public or consumer's
potable water system, the consumer shall notify the town immediately in order
that appropriate measures may be taken to overcome and eliminate the
contamination or pollution.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.158 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All connections for fire protection systems connected with the public
water system two inches and smaller, shall be protected with an approved RP
assembly as a minimum requirement. All fire systems using toxic additives or
booster pumps shall be protected by an approved RP assembly at the main service
connection.
   (B)   All connections for fire protection systems connected with the public
water system greater than two inches shall be protected with an approved RP
assembly as a minimum requirement. All fire protection systems using toxic or
hazardous additives or booster pumps shall be protected by an approved RP
assembly at the main service connection.
   (C)   All existing backflow prevention assemblies two and a half inches and
larger installed on fire protection systems that were initially approved by the
town shall be allowed to remain on the premises, as long as they are being
properly maintained, tested and repaired as required by this subchapter.
However, if the existing assembly must be replaced, (once it can no longer be
repaired), or in the event of proven water theft through an un-metered source,
the consumer shall be required to install an approved RP assembly as required
by this provision.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.159 ENFORCEMENTS.
   (A)   The consumer or person in charge of any installation found not to be
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter shall be notified in
writing with regard to the corrective action(s) to be taken.
   (B)   Such notice must explain the violation and give the time period within
which the violation must be corrected. The time period set to correct a
violation shall not exceed 30 days after receiving notice unless otherwise
specified by §
51.153. If the violation has been determined by the town to be an imminent
hazard, the service will be disconnected and the consumer shall be required to
correct the violation immediately.
   (C)   In the event a consumer is found in violation of this subchapter and
fails to correct the violation in a timely manner or pay any civil penalty or
expense assessed under this section, water service may be terminated, and shall
be reestablished only when the violation is corrected and any applicable civil
penalties and re-connect fees are paid.
   (D)   The violation of any section of this subchapter may be punished by a
civil penalty listed as follows:
      (1)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system which
creates an imminent hazard: $1,000 per day, not to exceed $10,000.
      (2)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system which
is of a moderate or high hazard: $500 per day, not to exceed $5,000.
      (3)   If in the judgement of the town any consumer, manager, supervisor,
or person in charge of any installation is found to be in noncompliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and neglects their responsibility to correct
a violation, water service will be discontinued. After the violation is
corrected and re-connect fees have been paid, service will be restored.
      (4)   Failure of a consumer or Certified Backflow Prevention Assembly
Tester to submit any record required by this subchapter, or the submission of
falsified reports or records, may result in a civil penalty of up to $500 per
violation. If a Tester submits falsified records to the town, the town shall
permanently revoke that Tester's privileges to test any backflow prevention
assembly within the jurisdiction of the town.
      (5)   Failure of a consumer to test or maintain backflow prevention
assemblies as required shall be subject to a civil penalty of $200 per day.
   (E)   Enforcement of this program shall be administered by the Director of
Public Works or authorized representative of the director.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-20-2017)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The direct or indirect use of water from the town distribution
system in violation of §§
51.001 through
51.004, §§
51.015 through
51.020, §§
51.035 through
51.039, and/or §§
51.050 through
51.056, is prohibited. Any water customer of the town distribution system that
violates or permits the violation of these rules and regulations shall be
subject to a penalty of $500.
      (2)   Each violation shall be added to the customer’s water bill and paid
in the same manner as current payments to the town. Each day a violation occurs
shall be considered a separate violation.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works shall be responsible for enforcing any
restrictions imposed by these rules and regulations. If a violation is known to
have occurred pursuant to this chapter, a written violation notice shall be
affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer
of record and any other person known to the town who is responsible for the
violation and its correction. The written notice shall describe the violation
and order that it be corrected immediately or within the specified time as the
town determines is reasonable under the circumstances.
      (4)   If a violation notice is not complied with, or if violation fees
for previous violations are not paid, the town may restrict or terminate water
service subject to the following procedures:
         (a)   The town shall give the customer notice by mail or messenger
that due to recurring violations or failure to pay for previous violations,
water services will be restricted or terminated within a specific time. The
customer will have the opportunity to appeal restriction or termination by
requesting a hearing scheduled before an official designated as a hearing
officer by the Town Manager. The request for a hearing should be made before
the cut-off date. A prompt conference with a hearing officer will be held.
         (b)   If a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given full opportunity to be heard before
restriction or termination.
         (c)   The hearing officer shall order whether services should be
restricted or continued. The customer may appeal to the Town Manager for a
prompt hearing. The Town Manager shall make findings of fact and order whether
service should be continued or terminated.
         (d)   Any customer charged with the violation of this chapter may
appeal the findings of the town hearing office or Town Manager to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 50.71)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
violate any provision of §§
51.070 through
51.077, §§
51.090 through
51.095, §§
51.110 through
51.113, §
51.125, §
51.126, and/or §§
51.140 through
51.146. Any person may be charged with violation and prosecuted in District
Court. Any person so charged and found guilty shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
The penalty for violation shall be a maximum fine of $50 per occurrence, or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days. Each day’s violation shall constitute a
separate offense. The imposition of one or more penalties for any violation
shall not excuse any violation or permit it to continue.
      (2)   In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution in division (B)
(1) above, violation may also subject the violator or customer to a civil
penalty of up to $500 per violation per day for so long as the violation
exists. Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct violation. In determining the amount of the civil
penalty, the Manager shall take into account all relevant circumstances,
including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the
magnitude and duration of the violation, efforts to correct the violation, the
compliance history of the person against whom the violation is assessed, the
cost of enforcement to the town, whether the violation was willful or
intentional, and any other factor as justice requires.
      (3)   The town shall serve a written citation on the violator, and the
customer, if different, by personal delivery or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested. The citation shall describe the violation and
shall specify the amount of the civil penalty levied. The civil penalty is
collectible in a civil action in the nature of debt. The imposition of one or
more penalties for a violation shall not excuse any violation or permit it to
continue.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of the grease trap requirement set forth in
§
51.103 shall be $100 per billing period.
(Prior Code, § 51.30) (Am. Ord. passed 8-16-2010)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
FORM 1: LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
Dear Customer,
The Town of Carthage, as the water purveyor and supplier, will comply with the
Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, North Carolina State Building Code, the North
Carolina Drinking Act, and North Carolina State Administrative Code as they
pertain to cross-connections.
Lawn irrigation systems are classified as hazardous use and shall be protected
against backflow by a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
(RPZ).
This device shall conform to ASSE (American Society of Sanitary Engineers)
1013, AWWA (American Waterworks Association) C511 or CSA (Canadian Standards
Association) CAN (Canadian) CSA-B64.3. The relief opening must discharge by air
gap and cannot be installed below ground. The device is to be inspected and
passed by the town before water can be turned on. The consumer at each property
shall have the device tested on an annual basis and perform routine maintenance
to such device as recommended by the manufacturer. The consumer must then
provide the Town of Carthage Public Works Department with a report of that
inspection and work. The report should be mailed to:
4396 Hwy. 15/501, Carthage, NC 28327.
If you have any questions or concerns, please call the Director of Public Works
at 910-947-2331.
Signature of Applicant & Date
________________________________________
Signature of Town Agent & Date
____________________________________
CHAPTER 52: WORK WITHIN TOWN RIGHTS-OF-WAY;
UTILITIES; ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
Section
   
52.01   Purpose and intent
   
52.02   General conditions for use of rights-of-way
   
52.03   Encroachment permit required
   
52.04   Exemptions and requirements
   
52.05   Unlawful to do work without authorization; emergency
   
52.06   Application requirements
   
52.07   Additional requirements for wireless support structures, wireless
communications facilities, and any other wireless communications facility,
small wireless facility or micro wireless facility located in the PROW
   
52.08   Enforcement provisions
   
52.09   Fees, agreements and licenses
   
52.10   Definitions
§ 52.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the town (referred to in this chapter as
the "Board" and the "Town" finds that:
      (1)   Extremely limited space exists in the public rights-of-way (PROW)
that requires diligent responsible management including but not limited to
responsible proper siting policies;
      (2)   Protecting the public safety in and near the PROW is of paramount
concern:
      (3)   The facilities that use and occupy the PROW often pose significant
concerns regarding the health, safety, public welfare, protecting the nature
and character of the town and its neighborhoods and for the environmental
effects of work and facilities in the PROW. The town recognizes that
facilitating the development of the responsible policies regarding the use of
the PROW can be an economic development asset to the town and of significant
benefit to the town and its residents. To assure that regulations governing the
use of the PROW are reasonable and balanced, the town is adopting a single,
comprehensive set of regulations governing the PROW.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Minimize the physical impact of facilities on the limited space of
the PROW;
      (2)   Minimize the impact of facilities on the community;
      (3)   Protect the nature and character of the community to the extent
reasonably possible;
      (4)   Establish a fair and efficient process for review of and action on
applications;
      (5)   Facilitate the processing of applications;
      (6)   Assure tax payers' money is not used to subsidize application-
related costs normally and traditionally borne by the applicant;
      (7)   Assure prompt and efficient review of applications;
      (8)   Determine any environmental impacts associated with the location,
construction and modification of facilities located in the PROW; and protect
the health, safety and welfare of the town, its citizens, residents and
visitors; and to
      (9)   Establish procedures to: monitor work in the PROW; permit
encroachments in the town's PROW; monitor and permit the use of town's property
as applicable.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.02 GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Rights-of-way in the town may be controlled by North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT), private parties and/or the town. The town
issues and/or monitors work and/or encroachments in the town's rights-of-way.
The town may own property in NCDOT'S rights-of-way. Encroachment permits or
agreements are required to attach or use any town property.
   (B)   The right to perform work in the PROW and the ability to maintain
facilities in the PROW are allowed subject to the conditions below, as
supplemented by those set forth in other sections of this chapter, standards
adopted by the Department, and requirements contained in permits and/or other
authorizations.
      (1)   An encroachment permit does not convey any legal right title, or
interest in the public way. Persons doing work in the public way and users may
need to obtain approvals from persons with property interests in the property.
      (2)   A permit or authorization does not limit the town's exercise of its
regulatory, police, government, legislative, or contracting authority. Town
retains all rights it has to use all portions of public rights-of-way for its
purposes not prohibited by law. If a permit or authorization conflicts with the
terms of another permit or authorization or with the town code, the stricter of
the applicable provisions shall control. The stricter provision shall not
control, however, if a later-issued permit, authorization or ordinance
explicitly and specifically states that particular terms are to override prior,
less strict terms in an authorization.
      (3)   The town and its officials, officers, and employees are not liable
for any direct, indirect or consequential damages that result when facilities
in the public way are damaged during the construction, installation,
inspection, maintenance, use or repair of public improvements that have
received town funding or that are installed pursuant to a contract with the
town.
      (4)   Users and persons who cause work to be done in the public way shall
pay for all damage that results, directly or indirectly, from work performed
for their benefit in the PROW, and for the installation, repair, maintenance,
and operation of their facilities in the PROW.
      (5)   An encroachment permit creates no third-party rights against the
town and is intended only for the benefit of the person receiving the permit or
authorization.
      (6)   Persons doing work in the PROW shall not interfere with existing
town utilities, such as infrastructure for water and sewer, the natural and
constructed stormwater system, and traffic signals and associated lines, or the
repair or replacement of such systems. Persons doing work in the PROW shall
apply for an encroachment permit at least ten working days to locate and mark
any existing town utility lines prior to initiating work. Damage to town
utilities or other infrastructure shall be paid for by the person or user
contracting for the work that resulted in such damage. If an encroachment
permit is not required, persons doing work in the PROW shall also give the town
Public Works Department ten working days' notice to locate and mark any
existing town utility lines prior to initiating work. In addition, persons will
give the Department a second notice 24-hours before doing any work in the PROW
as required by division (B)(15)) below.
      (7)   Persons and users performing work in the public way shall ensure
worker, traffic, and pedestrian safety and shall ensure that all work is
performed in accordance with industry standards. Compliance with all federal,
state, and local regulations, and all federal, state, local and industry codes
and standards is required. These include but are not limited to compliance with
the Occupational Safety and Health Act; compliance with the National Electrical
Code and National Electrical Safety Code; compliance with fiber optic
installation standards and telecommunication industry standards; compliance
with plumbing and pipe installation codes and standards; and compliance with
standards and codes for traffic safety and lane closures. Persons and users
shall provide all equipment and personnel necessary to meet applicable
regulations, codes, and standards and shall furnish additional equipment or
personnel if requested by the town.
      (8)   The Department shall have the discretion to approve, deny, alter,
and condition all proposed locations of facilities in the public way, and to
determine whether placement, if allowed, shall be above ground or below ground.
      (9)   Wires, fiber, and similar conduit shall generally be located
underground. A user that wishes to place such facilities above ground shall
demonstrate to the town's satisfaction why above ground placement is necessary.
      (10)   The town recommends that facilities shall be located in existing
ducts if such ducts are available and practicable to use. Applicants shall take
reasonable steps to procure the right to use existing ducts.
      (11)   A user shall demonstrate to the Department's satisfaction that
sufficient space exists in the public way for its proposed facilities without
interfering with existing or planned public projects, and that placement of the
facilities will not unduly disrupt use of the public way or negatively impact
the condition of the public way.
      (12)   The town may require a user to post written notice of proposed
work or activities along the public way impacted and/or to distribute notices
to individual properties located along the public way.
      (13)   Users shall give the Department all information it requests
regarding the installation of facilities upon completion. Such information may
include, but is not limited to as-built or other maps, which shall be furnished
in the form required by the Department, and changes to planned locations that
were necessary to avoid pre-existing infrastructure.
      (14)   A person or user that conducts excavation or other activities that
disturb the public rights-of-way or plantings within the public rights-of-way
or facilities within the public way shall restore the area to a functional
condition equivalent to that it was in prior to the disturbance. The
restoration shall include, but is not limited to, installation of pavement,
resurfacing nearby areas, grading other surface areas, restoring below ground
areas, planting and landscaping, replacing curb ramps to current standard, and
repairing improvements and facilities.
      (15)   Users shall contact the Public Works Department at least 24 hours
prior to actual work performed in the right-of-way except in the case of an
emergency.
      (16)   To the extent permitted by North Carolina law, the town may
require a performance bond for work to be done in the PROW.
      (17)   A user shall at its own cost relocate its facilities within a time
determined in the discretion of the town if the town determines in its
discretion that the facilities were placed in the PROW without first obtaining
permission from the town and the facilities:
         (a)   Interfere with the use of the public way, or the provision of
services to town residents;
         (b)   Interfere with the repair or maintenance of any town-maintained
utility; or
         (c)   Will impede the construction of a project funded in part with
public funds, or a project to be dedicated to the public upon completion.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.03 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to performing work or placing facilities within a public right-of-way
in the town, a user may be required to obtain a license and must obtain an
encroachment permit issued by the Public Works Department. (Encroachment
permits are also called work permits.) A user shall acquire an encroachment
permit from the Public Works Department for the following activities:
   (A)   Excavation or restoration within the public way, including, but not
limited to, construction of new portions of the public way;
   (B)   Cutting, moving, or alteration of any pavement, paver (for example,
brick or stone), pipe, conduit, pole, meter, fire hydrant facility, or other
equipment or structure owned by the town, or attachment to such objects;
   (C)   Installation or repair of facilities within the public way including
but not limited to placing facilities on other facilities already located in
the public way;
   (D)   Construction of private streets (including but not limited to paving
and gutters), sidewalks, or alleys;
   (E)   Installation or repair of facilities for the conveyance of water,
sewer, or stormwater;
   (F)   Installation or repair of facilities for electrical, gas, video,
internet, telephone, cable, telecommunications, television, or other
information or data transfer service to customers within the town;
   (G)   Work in the rights-of-way that affects traffic patterns, either
permanently or temporarily;
   (H)   Make ready work. The town shall provide estimates for any make-ready
work necessary to enable the town utility pole to support the requested
collocation, including pole replacement if necessary, within 60 days after
receipt of a complete application. Make-ready work, including any pole
replacement, shall be completed within 60 days of written agreement on the cost
of the work;
   (I)   Attachments to town property in NCDOT or other rights-of-way; and
   (J)   The Town Board may approve agreements for the use of town property
that substitute for encroachment permits, such as the lease of space on a water
tower.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.04 EXEMPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The Public Works Department (the "Department") may exempt its contractors or
the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) from particular
requirements in §§
52.01 through
52.06 when substantial compliance has been assured through the town's
contracting system, or, in the case of NCDOT, where the need for state
infrastructure on town roads, or a joint undertaking by the town and NCDOT, or
the use of state controlled areas of the public way makes the application of
such requirements unreasonable.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.05 UNLAWFUL TO DO WORK WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION; EMERGENCY.
   Except in the event of an emergency, it shall be unlawful to do work in the
PROW or maintain facilities in the PROW without the required authorizations/
permits that may be necessary. In the event of an emergency, a person may do
such work as is necessary to address the emergency, but only the emergency.
Application shall immediately be made for necessary authorizations from the
town, notwithstanding that work may have started or have been completed and all
necessary fees shall be paid.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.06 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application must be filed with the Department for any work other than
normal maintenance on or associated with any pole or other support structure,
including modification, change or replacement of equipment that would be
different in size, weight or appearance than the existing equipment that is not
otherwise exempt under this chapter. The following information shall be
submitted in an application for an encroachment permit.
   (A)   Contact information for the user of the public right-of-way and
contractors performing the work. Include all contractor's/trade's/professional
licenses held and license numbers.
   (B)   Description of the work to be performed, including the specific
location or the requested make ready work.
   (C)   Construction drawings demonstrating compliance with the Town of
Carthage Engineering Specifications and Standard Details, the NCDOT Subdivision
Road Manual, and the latest edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and Chapter 100 Development Ordinance.
   (D)   Description of all existing infrastructure within the proposed work
area and any proposed modification, improvement or movement of infrastructure.
   (E)   Evidence that the owners of other utilities or encroachers near the
new work have been notified.
   (F)   Proposed work schedule.
   (G)   Insurance. The town may require persons that do work in the PROW and
users to provide insurance by a company authorized to do business in the state,
including but not limited to: i) workers' compensation coverage for all
employees; ii) employers' liability insurance; iii) commercial general
liability; and iv) business auto policy. The town may require that the town,
its officials, employees and consultants be named as additional insureds on
such insurance policies in that case the applicant shall provide a certificate
of insurance. If an applicant has previously damaged town property or has not
adequately repaired damaged town property during the past three years, the
amount of insurance shall be as determined by the town, in part based on the
scope of the work and the tenure or term of occupancy.
   (H)   To facilitate the preparation and submittal of an application in
compliance with this chapter, and thereby expedite the review and permitting of
an application, a pre-application meeting may be held.
   (I)   No permitting of unidentified facilities. No permit or authorization
shall be granted for new equipment or facilities that is not expressly and
individually identified at the time of the application, including the specific
location and design characteristics of each facility.
   (J)   Site visit. A site visit of each facility or proposed location of a
new facility may be conducted to determine the physical condition of the
facility or proposed location and to identify any issues of concern, non-
compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and any safety issues
or concerns.
   (K)   Installations in the PROW shall be located and constructed to create
the least visual impact on the immediate surrounding area and the least
physical intrusion and impact on the limited space in the PROW. Such
facilities/equipment shall not be constructed in a sight triangle or so close
to the curb or edge of pavement that a safety hazard is created. (See §
92.02 of this code.)
   (L)   Riser cable. All riser or other vertically run cable of any kind
attached to a pole or other support structure shall be protected with non-
conductive, non-degradable material shall be of a color that matches the color
of the pole or other support structure as closely as is reasonably possible.
   (M)   New and replacement poles or support structures that are not
substantial modifications or routine maintenance. An application for a new or
replacement pole or support structure must include detailed design criteria,
including material composition, aesthetic appearance and a structural adequacy
analysis with calculations which must be able to be independently verified
using the information submitted by the applicant.
      (1)   New and replacement installations shall be consistent throughout
the town limits;
      (2)   When feasible and in lieu of installing new poles, new
installations shall precipitate replacing an existing distribution pole,
secondary pole or streetlight with a pole that meets the standards set forth in
this section;
      (3)   Installations shall be on non-conductive poles;
      (4)   All wireless facilities and base stations (including radios,
network equipment and batteries) shall be: i) enclosed in a pedestal cabinet
near the pole; ii) in a pole-mounted cabinet; or iii) under a pole-mounted
shroud; and
      (5)   Equipment installations shall be on poles that meet or exceed
current NESC standards and wind and ice loading requirements of the latest
edition of TIA 222.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.07 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES, WIRELESS
COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES, AND ANY OTHER WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY,
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY OR MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY LOCATED IN THE PROW.
   An applicant shall demonstrate compliance with §§
52.02 through
52.06 and provide the additional supplemental information specific to wireless
facilities, structures and ancillary equipment.
   (A)   To facilitate the application process and to mitigate application-
related costs for applicants, depending upon the scope of the proposed work and
its impact, both visual and physical as determined by the Department,
applications for small/micro wireless facilities may be submitted in groups of
up to 25 facilities in a single application.
   (B)   No taxpayer subsidization. Taxpayers may not directly or indirectly
subsidize applicant's costs.
   (C)   Maximum permitted height. 
      (1)   On wireless support structures. Utility poles and town utility
poles the maximum permitted height is 50 feet above ground level.
      (2)   Small wireless facilities may extend ten feet above the height of
the utility pole, town utility pole or wireless support facility on which they
are collocated.
      (3)   In the R-20, R-10 and R-HD zoning districts, in areas where the
existing utilities are installed underground the maximum height is 40 feet
above ground level.
       (4)   On blocks where decorative light or utility poles are installed,
collocations may only occur on decorative poles if feasible. New poles shall be
of the same design and materials as the decorative poles. (See §
52.03 for information on encroachment on town utility poles.)
   (D)   Absent a showing by clear and convincing evidence of the need for a
greater lateral distance between poles or other support structures in the PROW,
the minimum lateral distance between poles or other support structures as
measured in any direction shall be 100 feet. This minimum lateral distance
shall not be applicable to poles or support structures that support lines or
cables crossing a street.
   (E)   Compliance with NESC and NEC. All electronic attachments to poles or
other structures in the PROW shall always be in compliance with the edition of
the National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) and the National Electrical Code
(NEC) in effect at the later of:
      (1)   The time the facility was constructed;
      (2)   The time of the last modification of equipment on the pole or other
support structure; or
      (3)   The edition in effect at the time of the current application.
   (F)   Service date. Applicants shall attest that small wireless facilitates
be activated and placed in service no later than one year from the date the
permit is issued.
   (G)   Abandonment.
      (1)   Wireless services providers are required to remove an abandoned
wireless facility within 180 days of abandonment. Should the wireless services
provider fail to timely remove the abandoned wireless facility, the town may
cause such wireless facility to be removed and may recover the actual cost of
such removal, including legal fees, if any, from the wireless services
provider. For the purposes of this section, a wireless facility shall be deemed
abandoned at the earlier of the date that the wireless services provider
indicates that it is abandoning such facility or the date that is 180 days
after the date that such wireless facility ceases to transmit a signal, unless
the wireless services provider gives the town reasonable evidence that it is
diligently working to place such wireless facility back in service.
      (2)   This section applies to rights-of-way controlled by the North
Carolina Deptartment of Transportation.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.08 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Failure to acquire a permit or notify the Department of work in the
right-of-way may result in a stop work order. The stop work order shall be in
writing and state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (B)   The violation of a stop work order issued pursuant to this section
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable under G.S. §14-4 and may be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 per day. Civil penalties authorized by
this section may be assessed against the user on whose behalf work is being
performed and against the contractor or subcontractor who is performing such
work.
   (C)   If a user, contractor, or sub-contractor has received a stop work
order within the last three months, the user is required to post a bond for up
to 125% of the estimated cost of the work.
   (D)   All of the other provisions of §
10.99 of this code apply to violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.09 FEES, AGREEMENTS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   The department shall charge such fees as are authorized by the Town
Board in the adopted fee schedule.
   (B)   The Town Board of Commissioners may grant non-exclusive licenses to
use the rights-of-way or other town properties.
   (C)   The Town Board of Commissioners may enter into agreements governing
pole attachments, other attachments, and/or the use of other town properties
for the provision of wireless or communications services, including town-owned
properties in town or other rights-of-way.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 52.10 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms in this section shall have the meaning given
below unless the context indicates otherwise. These meanings shall apply
whether a word is capitalized or not or is singular or plural.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and
receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of
wireless communications services.
   APPLICATION. A request that is submitted by an applicant to the town for a
permit to collocate wireless facilities or to approve the installation,
modification, or replacement of a utility pole, including town utility poles,
or a wireless support structure.
   AUTHORIZATION. Written permission from the town to do work in the PROW or to
maintain facilities in the PROW and includes but is not limited to a franchise,
a license, a permit, a letter, construction drawing approval. Multiple
authorizations may be required for certain activities.
   BASE STATION. A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with
mobile stations, generally consisting of radio receivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies, and other associated electronics.
   COLLOCATION. The placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the
surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures, including utility poles,
town utility poles, water towers, buildings, and other structures capable of
structurally supporting the attachment of wireless facilities.
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Works Department of the town.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life or
health, or a significant loss of property, or requires immediate repair to
restore service to a group of users of such service.
   ENCROACHMENT (or WORK) PERMIT. A written authorization allowing a user or
applicant to work in the town rights-of-way, including both temporary
encroachments, such as construction and permanent encroachments, such as the
installation of fixtures.
   EXCAVATE. Without limitation any cutting, digging, grading, tunneling,
boring, or other alteration of the surface or subsurface material or earth in
the public way.
   FACILITIES. Poles, pipes, culverts, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, fiber,
amplifiers, pedestals, antennae, transmission or receiving equipment, other
electronic equipment, electrical conductors, manholes, appliances, signs,
poles, pavement structures, irrigation systems, landscaping, monument signs,
monument mailboxes and any other similar equipment, for public or private use.
   MAKE READY WORK. Any modification or replacement of a town utility pole
necessary for the town utility pole to support a small wireless facility in
compliance with applicable safety requirements, including the National
Electrical Safety Code, that is performed in preparation for a collocation
installation.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Activities associated with regular and general upkeep
of transmission equipment, including the replacement of existing wireless
facilities with wireless facilities of the same size.
   PERSON. An individual, association, firm, partnership, limited liability
company, joint venture, corporation, government, utility, or other organized
entity able to contract for the activities described in this chapter, whether
for profit or not for profit. The term does not include the town.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY (PROW). The area that is used as, or offered, dedicated,
or reserved for use as a public street, highway, alley, trail, sidewalk, curb,
gutter, bike lane, bridge, roundabout, tunnel, causeway, or shoulder, that is
in the town or in an area proposed for annexation to the town. The area also
includes, without limitation, drainage areas and dedicated areas without
surface improvements that are adjacent to improved areas, and areas where no
roads or other improvements have been constructed but which are dedicated for
one or more of the above uses. The public way encompasses the surface of the
ground, and the area above and below the ground. Sometimes referred to as town
right-of-way.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. 
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet.
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the following types of ancillary
equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric
meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation boxes, ground-
based enclosures, grounding equipment power transfer switches, cut-off
switches, vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services,
or other support structures.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. The mounting of a proposed wireless facility on a
wireless support structure that substantially changes the physical dimensions
of the support structure. A mounting is presumed to be a substantial
modification if it meets any one or more of the criteria listed below.
      (1)   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of:
         (a)   More than 10%; or
         (b)   The height of one additional antenna array with separation from
the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of a wireless support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the edge of the wireless support structure the greater of: i)
more than 20 feet; or ii) more than the width of the wireless support structure
at the level of the appurtenance, increasing the square footage of the existing
equipment compound by more than 2,500 square feet.
   TOWN UTILITY POLE. A pole owned by a town in the town right-of-way that
provides lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
   USER. A person that proposes to place facilities in the public way, places
such facilities, or owns or maintains such facilities.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure not owned by the town that is designed for and
used to carry lines, cables, wires, lighting facilities or small wireless
facilities for telephone, cable television, or electricity, or to provide
lighting or wireless services.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 9-18-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Engine breaking
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of 25 mph inside
the municipal corporate limits of the town upon all town-maintained streets,
unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   The speed limits set pursuant to this section shall be effective when
appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected upon the streets affected.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02 ENGINE BREAKING.
   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate, within the
corporate town limits, any engine brake, compression brake or mechanical
exhaust devise designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle
that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from any vehicle
except responding to a bona fide emergency or avoiding a traffic accident.
(Ord. 18-18, passed 11- -2018)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Skateboards
   
71.01   Use of skateboards
Golf Carts
   
71.10   Golf carts
SKATEBOARDS
§ 71.01 USE OF SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   It shall be illegal to use a skateboard on the public streets or
sidewalks within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Any skateboard found in use on the public streets or sidewalks shall
be confiscated by the police and held at the police station until it is
released to the parent or guardian of the person using the skateboard.
(Prior Code, § 84.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.10 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definition. Unless the context requires otherwise, the definitions
found in G.S. § 20-4.01 apply throughout this section. As specified in G.S. §
20-4.01(12a), a GOLF CART is a vehicle designed and manufactured for operation
on a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable
of exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour. The definition of GOLF CART is
republished here for convenience only, and the definition set out in the North
Carolina General Statutes, as amended from time to time, is controlling for all
purposes.
   (B)   Operation. The operation of golf carts where the posted speed limit is
35 miles per hour or less on (“eligible”) public streets, roads, and highways
within the corporate limits of the town in compliance with the provisions of
this section is permitted; however, it shall be unlawful to operate any golf
cart at any place or in any manner that is not authorized herein.
Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, the operation of golf carts
is not subject to the provisions of this section under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs, or on
private property with the consent of the owner of the property;
      (2)   The operation of golf carts within gated or limited access
communities unless the streets of the community are dedicated for public use
and maintained by the town;
      (3)   The use of golf carts by town personnel for official business on
property owned or leased by the town; and
      (4)   The operation of golf carts in connection with a properly permitted
parade or as street festival/special event so long as the person or entity in
charge of the parade or event consents to the use of the golf cart, the golf
cart is only used during the parade or event, and the public street, road, or
highway upon which the golf cart is operated has been closed by order of the
proper governmental authorities.
   (C)   Use by minors. No person who is less than 16 years of age may operate
a golf cart on any public street, road, or highway within the town.
Additionally, it is unlawful for a person to operate a golf cart on any public
street, road, or highway within the town without having in his or her
possession a valid driver’s license issued in accordance with the laws of North
Carolina or another state.
   (D)   Required equipment. No person may operate a golf cart on any public
street, road, or highway within the town unless it is in compliance with the
following standards:
      (1)   The golf cart is equipped with a rear vision mirror and at least
two red reflectors that are at least three inches in height and width on the
rear of the golf cart;
      (2)   The golf cart is equipped with a reflective “slow moving vehicle”
sign on the rear of the golf cart that conforms with generally accepted highway
safety standards in North Carolina;
      (3)   The brakes provided by the manufacturer of the golf cart are in
proper working order;
      (4)   The golf cart has all of the standard safety features provided by
the manufacturer and has not been modified to exceed a speed of 20 miles per
hour nor otherwise modified in any way that creates a hazard; and
      (5)   The golf cart is equipped with any other mechanical systems and
safety equipment required for compliance with the provisions found in this
section.
   (E)   Revocation of use. The use of a golf cart may be denied or
subsequently revoked by the Carthage Chief of Police or his or her designee if
it is determined that:
      (1)   The golf cart is not in compliance with one or more of the
requirements prescribed by this section;
      (2)   The golf cart has been altered or customized and no longer meets
the definition of a “golf cart;” or
      (3)   Equipment installed by the manufacturer, specifically including
without limitation safety equipment and the vehicle identification or serial
number, has been removed from the golf cart.
   (F)   Rules of operation. It is unlawful to operate a golf cart on a public
street designated for golf carts in any manner that fails to comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Only the number of people the golf cart was designed to seat may
ride on the golf cart at any single point in time. By way of illustration and
not limitation, passengers shall not be transported on the part of a golf cart
designed to carry golf bags.
      (2)   A golf cart must not be operated at a speed greater than reasonable
and prudent for the existing conditions, and in no instance at a speed greater
than 20 miles per hour.
      (3)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless and reckless manner.
      (4)   Golf carts must be operated to the extreme right of the roadway and
must yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (5)   Golf carts are permitted to operate on public streets only during
daylight hours unless the cart is equipped with at least one operating
headlight that has, at a minimum, a 55 watt halogen, or equal, bulb on the
front of the golf cart and two operating tail lights on either side of the rear
of the golf cart. If the lighting specified in the immediately preceding
sentence is installed and operational, such a golf cart may operate for one
hour before sunrise and one hour past sunset.
      (6)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws and ordinances, including without limitation all laws,
regulations, and ordinances pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages.
   (G)   Other vehicles. All terrain vehicles, four-wheel utility vehicles, and
other similar utility vehicles that are not manufactured for operation on a
golf course as well as golf carts that have been modified so as to no longer
conform with the prescribed definition of “golf cart” may not be allowed under
this section, and these types of vehicles are not permitted to operate on the
public roads, streets, and highways within the town unless such vehicles are
otherwise registered with and allowed under the motor vehicle laws of the State
of North Carolina.
   (H)   Non-liability. Golf carts are neither designed for nor manufactured to
be used on public streets, and the Town of Carthage neither advocates nor
endorses the golf cart as a safe means of travel on public streets, roads, and
highways. Any person who operates or rides upon a golf cart on a public street,
road, or highway within the town, or encourages others to use a golf cart owned
by the individual for such purposes and activities, does so at his or her own
risk and peril.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Regulation of parking on privately owned property
   
72.02   Double parking prohibited
   
72.03   Vehicle parking on public streets
   
72.04   Tractor-trailer parking
§ 72.01 REGULATION OF PARKING ON PRIVATELY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in general charge of
the operation and control of any parking areas or driveways of a privately
owned hospital, shopping center, apartment house, condominium complex ,
commercial office complex, or other privately owned public vehicular area, as
defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(32), the Board may regulate or prohibit during
specified hours the stopping, standing, or parking of motor vehicles.
   (B)   The owner or person in general charge of the operation and control of
the property must submit the request for regulation in writing, on application
forms available from the Town Clerk.
   (C)   (1)   The cost of erecting, placing, or installing signs, and the cost
of all necessary signs as determined by the Chief of Police, shall be paid by
the person requesting regulations.
      (2)   All signs erected must be approved prior to placement, or the
applicant may request that the town place the signs upon payment by the
applicant of all costs.
   (D)   No person shall stop, leave standing, or park a motor vehicle on
private property in violation of posted signs, when signs are placed, erected,
or installed giving notice that stopping, standing, parking  is regulated,
prohibited, or prohibited during certain hours, in that space or area.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 DOUBLE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave standing any vehicle
back of another vehicle parked on the streets of the town or allow any vehicle
to stand on the streets so as to block or interfere with the movement or
passage of other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 VEHICLE PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on the public
streets of the town, where signs have been erected prohibiting parking for more
than two hours, and single parking spaces marked off with white lines, longer
than two hours at a time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any public
streets of the town, where signs have been erected prohibiting parking for more
than 15 minutes, and single parking spaces marked off with white lines, longer
than 15 minutes at a time.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any of the
public streets of the town, where signs have been erected prohibiting parking.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon the
public streets of the town, where yellow markings appear on the pavement
indicating a no-parking zone.
   (E)   The registered owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this
section will be presumed to be the one who parked the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 TRACTOR-TRAILER PARKING.
   No person shall park, store, or otherwise leave on any street/residential
lot any trailer or towing unit. It is permissible to park a tractor and or/
trailer only while making delivery to an adjacent premise.
(Prior Code, § 40.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Maintenance of streets
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   Martin Street in the town, at its point of intersection with
Monroe Street near the Courthouse and extending therefrom easterly one block,
is hereby declared to be a one-way street.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle on the
street except easterly proceeding from Monroe Street.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
   (B)   The one-block section of Barrett Street from Ray Street west to
McReynolds Street (Hwy. 24/27) is designated to be one-way west bound, and
appropriate signs be posted.
(Ord. passed 5-20-1996)
   (C)   Rockingham Street, from the intersection of Saunders Street southerly
to the intersection of South McNeill Street, is hereby declared to be a one-way
street during student arrival and departure times of Carthage Elementary
School.
      (1)    ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE TIMES shall be defined as arrival and
departure times for regular scheduled school days for students, any scheduled
early departure times for students, and any unscheduled early departure times
for students.
      (2)   Any temporary or permanent signage deemed appropriate, which
clearly designates Rockingham Street as a one-way street, shall be posted.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2013)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. MAINTENANCE OF STREETS.
   The town will take full responsibility for the care and maintenance of the
below named streets.
 
Street                         Distance
Bruce Street (State Road 1913) 400 feet (0.08 miles)
Canary Road (State Road 1866)  1,450 feet (0.28 miles)
 
(Ord. passed 4-19-2004)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking areas
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle or
conveyance in the corporate limits of the town upon either side or any place on
a public street and highway within the area described as follows:
      (1)   Beginning at the intersection of McNeil and Saunders Streets, and
extending south to the lower drive of 302 South McNeil Street; and
(Prior Code, § 72.03)
      (2)   Parking is prohibited along the north side of Monroe Street (NC 24/
27) from its intersection with McNeil Street (NC 22) eastward to its
intersection with Isley Street (SR 1802).
(Prior Code, § 72.06)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle or
conveyance in the corporate limits of the town in two parking spaces directly
in front of the First Baptist Church of Carthage from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 72.04)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   OPEN BURNING
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   NUISANCE
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   CEMETERIES
      
96.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
      
97.   MURAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Agency authority and responsibility
Animal Cruelty
   
90.015   Unlawful acts specified
   
90.016   Food, drink, shelter, care
   
90.017   Declawed cats
   
90.018   Animal enclosure
   
90.019   Equine provision
   
90.020   Transport of animals by motor vehicle
   
90.021   Unlawful conditions for confining animals in vehicles
   
90.022   Injury or death of animal by motorist
   
90.023   Tethering of fowl prohibited
   
90.024   Transfer of animals under eight weeks prohibited; exception
   
90.025   Dyeing of animals prohibited
   
90.026   Trapping of animals restricted
   
90.027   Luring or enticing animal
Control of Vicious or Dangerous Animals
   
90.040   Keeping of vicious or dangerous domestic animal restricted
   
90.041   Determination by Health Inspector
   
90.042   Requirements of owner of vicious dog
Nuisance
   
90.055   Unlawful for animal keeper to create nuisance
   
90.056   Written notice of violation; 48-hour abatement period
   
90.057   Complaint to Health Director
   
90.058   Report of investigation of complaint; impoundment
   
90.059   Unlawful to fail or refuse to abate
Animals Surrendered by Owner
   
90.070   Conditions for surrendered animal adoption or humane destruction
   
90.071   Discretion with shelter
Non-Domestic Animals
   
90.085   Dangerous non-domestic animals prohibited
   
90.086   Wolves and coyotes prohibited
   
90.087   Animals to be maintained according to accepted veterinary standards
   
90.088   Feral cat colonies
Rabies Control
   
90.100   State laws control
   
90.101   Vaccinations required to stay current
   
90.102   Rabies tag and certificate
   
90.103   Animal bites; procedures and responsibilities
   
90.104   Animal bitten by known rabid animal
   
90.105   Area-wide emergency quarantine
   
90.106   Postmortem diagnosis
   
90.107   Unlawful to kill or release animals under observation
   
90.108   Failure to surrender animal for confinement or destruction
   
90.109   Failure to report suspected rabies case
Impoundment and Redemption
   
90.120   Impoundment permissible
   
90.121   Notice to owner or keeper
   
90.122   Redemption by owner or keeper
   
90.123   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal
   
90.124   Redemption or adoption of unvaccinated animal
   
90.125   Destruction of wounded, diseased, or unweaned animal
   
90.126   Destruction of animals which cannot be seized by reasonable means
   
90.127   Keeping stray animals
Permits
   
90.140   Security dogs
   
90.141   Collecting for resale
   
90.142   Spay or neuter of adopted animals
Livestock
   
90.155   Livestock regulation
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Cross reference to the Moore County Code of Ordinances, Chapter 9, entitled
Licenses, Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations.
Statutory reference:
   Animal license tax, see G.S. § 160A-212
   Animal shelters, see G.S. § 160A-493
    Authority of county to levy taxes to provide animal protection and control
programs, see G.S. § 160A-212
   Dogs, see G.S. Ch. 67
   Ordinance making power, see G.S.§  160A-174
   Power of county to regulate, restrict or prohibit the possession or
harboring of dangerous animals, see G.S.§  160A-187
   Power to define and prohibit animal abuse, see G.S. § 160A-182
   Rabies, see G.S. §130A-184 et seq.
   Wildlife resources commission, see G.S.§§ 143-237 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The willful discarding or deserting of a live animal, leaving
an animal for a period in excess of 12 hours without providing adequate food,
water or shelter for the duration of the absence, or releasing or dumping an
animal from a vehicle without demonstrating intent to recover the animal.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or non-domestic, but does not
include humans.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the Health Director for the
purpose of impounding and caring for animals.
   AT LARGE. An animal that is off the property of its owner or keeper and not
under physical restraint.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. County Board of Health.
   BOARDING. Providing, for profit, land and/or structure for the care of an
animal.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any for profit pet shop, grooming shop,
riding school, stable, zoological park, circus, animal exhibition/show, or
kennel.
   COMMERCIAL BREEDER. One who breeds animals for the primary purpose of
offering their offspring for sale to other breeders, pet shops, laboratories,
or individuals. By contrast, a HOBBY BREEDER is one who breeds purebred animals
occasionally to justifiably improve the breed and not primarily for the
purposes of income.
   COMMISSION. The state Health Services Commission.
   CONFINEMENT. Restricted interaction.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals, such as dogs, cats, equine, sheep,
cattle, goats, hogs, poultry, ferrets, llamas, emus, and/or other animals
domesticated by man so as to live and/or breed in a tame condition.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any living animal, which is strikingly or excitingly
different or unusual and not ordinarily kept as a pet or domesticated animal.
By way of example, EXOTIC ANIMALS shall include, but are not limited to, lions,
tigers, apes, monkeys, poisonous reptiles, and poisonous spiders. A hybrid of
any animal listed in the example above, regardless of genetic percentages,
shall be deemed exotic.
   EXOTIC MAMMAL. Any mammal designated by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Department of Agriculture, or other national or state public health
protection agencies as embargoed or prohibited under legal protection orders.
   EXOTIC REPTILE. Any reptile not native to the state.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal that has been bitten by, or been in the
presence of, any animal known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that is unsocialized to humans and has a temperament of
extreme fear of, and resistance to, contact with humans.
   FERAL CAT CAREGIVER. Any person who, in accordance with a trap neuter return
program, will trap neuter and return, vaccinate for rabies, ear tip, provide
care, including food and water, or has temporary custody of a feral cat(s).
   GROOMING SHOP. Any establishment, whether operated separately or in
connection with another business enterprise, that provides hair and nail
clipping, bathing, and other cosmetic services for animals.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. County Health Department.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Health Director of the county Health Department.
   HUMANELY DESTROYED. Destruction of an animal must comply with guidelines set
forth by American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA), the Humane Society of
the Unites States (HSUS), or the American Humane Association (AHA).
   IMPOUNDMENT. Any animal in custody of a person or animal shelter duly
authorized by the Health Director.
   KEEPER. Person having custody of an animal, who keeps or harbors an animal,
or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied
or controlled by the person. KEEPER does not include a person keeping a feral
cat as a feral cat caregiver.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein a person boards, lets for hire, trains/hunts
for a fee, breeds, buys, or sells dogs or cats. This shall not include the
ownership of dogs and/or cats which are part of the household, or which are
maintained adjoining a private residence for commercial hunting.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT DOG. Any dog used by a law enforcement agency in the
investigation of crimes, or as otherwise necessary in the enforcement of the
law. These animals are excluded from general requirements of this chapter with
the exception that they are regulated by the provisions of §§
90.100 through
90.108, and §
90.120.
   NONPROFIT ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Therapeutic facility, humane society, animal
shelter, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA),
animal rescue or welfare groups, or assistance animal training facilities.
(Recognized by federal or state law as nonprofit.)
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any carnivore, primate, bird, reptile, or other
venomous animals, regardless of whether it is indigenous to this state, and not
included in the definition of domestic animal, and shall include any hybrid
animal.
   NUISANCE. An animal or group of animals which:
      (1)   Damages, soils, or defiles private or public property;
      (2)   Interferes with, molests, or attacks persons or other animals;
      (3)   Is/are repeatedly at large, with the exception of feral cats;
      (4)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous, or offensive conditions;
      (5)   Chases, snaps at, harasses, or impedes pedestrians, bicyclists, or
vehicles;
      (6)   By virtue of number of assertive tendencies is offensive or
dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare;
      (7)   Is diseased or dangerous to the public health; or
      (8)   Habitually makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to reasonable persons of
ordinary sensibilities in close proximity to the premises where the animal is
kept or harbored.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership, corporation,
organization, or association that keeps or harbors an animal, assumes care of
an animal, or acts as a custodian of an animal, unless the animal is being
boarded for a fee. The owner has the right of property in the animal and is
responsible for the care, actions, and behavior of his or her animal(s) at all
times. OWNER does not include a person keeping a feral cat as a feral cat
caregiver.
   PATROL DOG. A dog that is trained or conditioned to attack or otherwise
respond aggressively, but only upon command from a handler either off or on
lead.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization, or
institution commonly recognized by law as a unit.
   PET. Any domestic animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any commercial establishment, whether operated separately or in
connection with another business enterprise, except for a licensed kennel, that
buys, sells, or boards any species of animal.
   RESTRAINT. The condition or behavior of an animal is:
      (1)   Controlled by means of a leash or other like device;
      (2)   Sufficiently near the owner or handler to be under his or her
direct control and is obedient to that person’s commands;
      (3)   Within a vehicle being driven or parked;
      (4)   Within a secure enclosure; or
      (5)   Within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
   RIDING SCHOOL or STABLE. Any place which has available for hire, boarding,
and/or riding/driving instruction for any horse, pony, donkey, or burro.
   SECURITY DOG. Any dog used, kept, or maintained within the county for the
purpose of protecting any person or property. Any dog may be further classified
as a patrol dog, sentry dog, or watch dog, as defined in this section.
   SENTRY DOG. A dog that is trained or conditioned to attack or otherwise
respond aggressively without command.
   STRAY. Any domestic animal without identification and rabies tags, that is
not under restraint, nor on the property of its owner or keeper.
   SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. An animal which is unvaccinated against rabies,
has bitten a person, or is known or believed to have been exposed to rabies.
   TRAP NEUTER RETURN (TNR). A feral cat program that is viewed as a viable
alternative to euthanasia.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, treatment of injuries, and prevention of
diseases in animals.
   VICIOUS DOG or OTHER ANIMAL. A dog or other animal that constitutes a
physical threat to humans, domestic animals, or livestock, or that approaches
any person in an attitude of attack off the owner’s property without being
teased, molested, provoked, beaten, tortured, or otherwise harmed, or that has
a known tendency of unprovoked attack, or that is trained or being trained for
fighting.
   WATCH DOG. A dog that barks and/or threatens to bite any intruder, and that
has been specially trained or conditioned for that purpose.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.002 AGENCY AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall be responsible for an animal shelter
or the designation of an organization to operate a shelter.
   (B)   Authority is hereby granted to the county Health Department to
establish and maintain an animal control program, to employ animal control
officers and other employees as shall be determined necessary by the Board of
Commissioners, and to appoint and compensate animal control officers and other
employees in accordance with policies of the Board of Health.
   (C)   The employees of the animal control program shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility, along with law enforcement agencies, to
enforce all laws of the state and all ordinances of the county pertaining to
animals, and shall cooperate with all law enforcement officers within the
county in fulfilling this duty;
      (2)   Enforce and carry out all laws of the state and all ordinances of
the county pertaining to rabies control;
      (3)   Be responsible for the investigation of all reported animal bites,
the quarantine of any domestic animal involved and suspected of having rabies,
for a period of not less than ten days, and for reporting to the Health
Director as soon as practical the occurrence of any animal bite and the
condition of any quarantined animal;
      (4)   Be responsible for the seizure and impoundment, where deemed
necessary, of any dog or other animal in the county involved in a violation of
this chapter or any other county ordinance or state law;
      (5)   Investigate cruelty or abuse with regard to animals;
      (6)   Make such canvasses of the county, including homes within the
county, as necessary for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with this
chapter or state statute;
      (7)   Keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of the
following:
         (a)   Seizure, impoundment, and disposition of all animals coming into
the custody of the animal control program;
         (b)   Bite cases, violations, complaints, and investigations of same;
         (c)   All money belonging to the Health Department and/or county which
were derived from fees, penalties, license tags, the sale of animals, or
sources other than taxes; and
         (d)   Any other matters deemed necessary by the Health Director.
      (8)   Be empowered to issue notices of violation of this chapter in the
form as the Health Director may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
ANIMAL CRUELTY
§ 90.015 UNLAWFUL ACTS SPECIFIED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously molest, torture,
torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat in any manner, mutilate,
kill, wound, maim, disfigure, injure, poison, burn or scald with any substance,
drown, abandon, or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general
welfare, any animal, or to cause or procure such action. The words TORTURE and
TORMENT shall be held to include every act, omission, or neglect whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted; but
the terms shall not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of animals under
the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Commission, nor to
prohibit the animal control officers, or persons duly authorized by the Health
Director or veterinarians, from destroying dangerous, unwanted, or injured
animals in a humane manner, nor to prohibit the lawful use of animals for
scientific research.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, tease, annoy,
disturb, molest, or irritate an animal that is confined to the owner’s
premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to fail to provide his or
her animal(s), or an animal entrusted to his or her care, with proper shelter
and protection from the weather, sufficient and wholesome food and water to
keep his or her animals, or an animal entrusted to his or her care, in good
health and comfort, with the opportunity for vigorous daily exercise, humane
care, veterinary treatment and care when needed to prevent the spread of
infectious diseases, injury, or suffering.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tether, chain, or fasten any
animal in a manner so as to permit it to be upon any public sidewalk or street,
or to leave it unattended while tethered, chained, or fastened on public
property. It shall be unlawful to tether, chain, or fasten an animal in a
manner so as to cause it injury or pain, or not permit it to reach shelter,
food, and water.
   (E)   Tethers shall be fastened to a collar (not choke chain or pinch
collar) or harness on the animal, and snapped to a D-Ring on the collar or
harness. The tether must have a swivel at the collar to prevent entanglement
and shall be of appropriate length and weight for the size of the animal, as
determined by the Health Director, or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 FOOD, DRINK, SHELTER, CARE.
   Proper food, drink, shade, shelter, and care shall require that:
   (A)   Each animal shall, at suitable intervals, and at least once every 24
hours, receive a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species’
physical condition and age, and sufficient to maintain an adequate level of
nutrition for the animal;
   (B)   Each animal shall have continuous access to a supply of clean, fresh,
potable water, and the water shall be either free-flowing or in a receptacle.
If water pans or dishes are used, the pans or dishes shall have weighted
bottoms or be mounted or secured in a manner that prevents tipping;
   (C)   Each animal shall have convenient access to shelter appropriate to the
species throughout the year. Any artificial shelter shall be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair to protect the animal from injury and from the
elements, and shall be of sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand,
turn around, and lie down in a natural manner. (See § 90.018 for details on
shelter size requirements.) Any shelter which does not protect the animal from
temperature extremes or precipitation, or which does not provide adequate
ventilation or drainage, does not comply with this section. The shelter and any
other spaces accessible to the animal, and all bedding for the animal, shall be
dry and maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk of the animal
contracting diseases, being injured, or becoming infested with parasites.
Examples of unacceptable shelter include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Underneath outside steps;
      (2)   Decks or stoops;
      (3)   Underneath houses;
      (4)   Inside or underneath motor vehicles;
      (5)   Inside cardboard boxes;
      (6)   Inside metal barrels;
      (7)   Inside temporary animal carriers or crates;
      (8)   Shelters located in flood-prone areas; or
      (9)   Shelters surrounded by waste, debris, obstructions or impediments
that may endanger an animal.
   (D)   (1)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (2)   ACCEPTABLE ADEQUATE SHELTER. An enclosure having at least three
solid sides, a roof, and a solid floor;
   (E)   Each animal shall receive care and medical treatment for debilitating
injuries, parasites, and disease, sufficient to maintain the animal in good
health and to minimize suffering; and
   (F)   The living area for each animal being kept confined or restrained
shall have adequate drainage so that the animal shall be free to walk or lie
down without coming in contact with standing water.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 DECLAWED CATS.
   Declawed cats (cats with front and/or hind claws removed) shall not be
permitted as outdoor pets, and shall be kept strictly indoors.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 ANIMAL ENCLOSURE.
   (A)   An animal’s primary enclosure shall be constructed of material and in
a manner so as to minimize the risk of injury to the animal, and shall
encompass sufficient usable space to keep the animal in good condition.
   (B)   When an animal is confined, the following minimum space requirements
shall be used:
Size of Dog Pen Size
            (square feet)
Size of Dog Pen Size
            (square feet)
Extra large 48
> 26 in. at withers, or > 75 lbs
Large       40
> 20 in. up to 26 in. at withers, or not > 75 lbs.
Medium      32
> 12 in. up to 20 in. at withers, or not > 50 lbs.
Small       24
12 in. or less at withers, or not > 20 lbs.
 
   (C)   Primary enclosures for cats shall be structurally sound, maintained in
good repair and in a manner to prevent injury to cats and to keep other animals
out. Each feline older than six months housed in any primary enclosure shall be
provided a minimum of four square feet of floor space which may include
elevated resting surfaces. Each feline younger than six months shall be
provided one and one-half square feet. In all cat enclosures, a receptacle
containing clean litter shall be provided for waste. A minimum of one
receptacle per three cats is required. No more than 12 cats shall be housed in
the same primary enclosure.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.019 EQUINE PROVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Each animal shall have reasonable access to shelter appropriate
for its state of health. Animals in a normal state of health, as determined by
the Health Director, or his or her designee, may be maintained in a pasture
environment where natural shelter provides sufficient protection from sun,
wind, rain, and other inclement weather. Where this is not available, or for
animals in a debilitated state of health, access to a human-made shelter is
required. These shelters are to be maintained so as to minimize the opportunity
for injury.
      (2)   Outdoor shelters shall have a minimum of three sides and a
waterproof roof sufficient to allow two feet of clearance from the animal’s
head in an erect position. Space requirements are 150 square feet per horse.
Drainage must be sufficient to maintain the animal’s feet in a dry condition.
   (B)   Fencing is to be maintained to ensure that the animal is securely
enclosed at all times, and that the opportunity for injury is minimized.
   (C)   Each animal shall have unlimited access to a source of clean water.
Each animal shall have sufficient hay, grain, pasture or other feedstuff
available on a continuous basis to maintain its normal body weight as
determined by the Health Director, or his or her designee.
   (D)   (1)   Each animal’s hooves shall be maintained on a regular basis to
avoid malformation. Animals with specific hoof conditions requiring specialized
treatment shall be provided that service on a regular basis.
      (2)   Each animal shall receive deworming products sufficient to avoid
malnourishment as a result of parasite infestation.
      (3)   Minimum vaccination requirements shall include, but are not limited
to, rabies vaccination.
      (4)   Animals in a debilitated state shall have access to appropriate
veterinary care and treatment in order to minimize pain and suffering.
      (5)   In the event that it is determined that the animal can no longer
live a productive pain free life, it is the responsibility of the owner to
ensure that the animal is disposed of, or euthanized, in a humane manner.
      (6)   If the animal is euthanized on the owner’s property, it is the
responsibility of the owner to see that the animal is buried within 24 hours of
its death, at least 100 feet away from any water source, and that the carcass
is covered with at least three feet of earth.
      (7)   If the owner of the animal is not able to euthanize and/or dispose
of the carcass, county Animal Control may make those arrangements for the owner
and bill the owner for expenses incurred.
      (8)   The driver of any vehicle which injures or kills an equine domestic
animal should inform the owner of the animal or, failing that, should inform
local law enforcement or county Animal Control.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.020 TRANSPORT OF ANIMALS BY MOTOR VEHICLE.
   When an animal is transported in a motor vehicle, the owner or driver is
responsible for maintaining control of the animal at all times during
transport, which shall include having the animal under the owner’s or driver’s
restraint when released from the vehicle in a public place, with the exception
of law enforcement dogs or hunting dogs being released on public game lands.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS FOR CONFINING ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or confine, or allow the
animal to be confined, in a manner so that it must remain in a motor vehicle or
trailer under conditions or for periods of time as may endanger the health or
well-being of the animal due to heat, lack of food or water, or any
circumstance which might cause suffering, disability, or death.
   (B)   An animal found confined in a motor vehicle in a public place under
weather conditions that endanger its life, as determined by the supervisor of
animal control, an animal control officer, an animal cruelty officer, or law
enforcement officer, is a violation of this section. Any law enforcement or
animal control officer is hereby authorized to enter the vehicle and rescue the
animal and impound it in accordance with §
90.120. A prominent written notice shall be left on or in the vehicle advising
that the animal has been removed under the authority of this section and
impounded, in accordance with §
90.120, at the animal shelter.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 INJURY OR DEATH OF ANIMAL BY MOTORIST.
   The driver of any vehicle which injures or kills a domestic animal should
inform the owner of the animal or, failing that, should inform local law
enforcement or county Animal Control.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.023 TETHERING OF FOWL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tether any fowl. Fowl used in the
training or demonstration of hunting dogs are exempt from this provision.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 TRANSFER OF ANIMALS UNDER EIGHT WEEKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall sell, or offer for sale, barter,
or give away as premiums, living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or
rabbits under eight weeks of age as pets or novelties, the person, firm, or
corporation shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor, pursuant to G.S. § 14-
363.1. However, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale of
non-domesticated species of chicks, ducklings, or other fowl, or of other fowl
from proper brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business
of selling them for purposes other than for pets or novelties.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.025 DYEING OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to color, dye, stain, or otherwise change the natural
color of baby chickens, other fowl, or rabbits.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.026 TRAPPING OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to set traps such as leg hold, soft leg
hold, offset leg hold, conibear, and spring wire traps within a residential
community or within 1,000 feet of a rural residence where domestic animals
might run loose, without the permission of the property owner.
      (2)   The owner of the trap shall have his or her name and contact
information permanently affixed to the trap.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully set a trap for the
sole purpose of trapping domestic animals (dogs, cats, puppies, kittens) with
the exception of live, humane traps.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 LURING OR ENTICING ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out of an
enclosure or off the property of its owner or keeper, or to seize any animal
while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper or while the
animal is on the property of its owner or keeper.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
CONTROL OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.040 KEEPING OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMAL RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any vicious, fierce, or
dangerous domestic animal within the county unless it is confined within a
secure building or enclosure, or is restrained by means of a leash or other
like device and firmly under control at all times.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 DETERMINATION BY HEALTH INSPECTOR.
   A dog is determined to be vicious at the discretion of the Health Director,
or his or her designee, as defined in §
90.001.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.042 REQUIREMENTS OF OWNER OF VICIOUS DOG.
   If a dog is determined to be vicious, its owner is required to:
   (A)   Keep the animal in a secure enclosure with a fence at least six feet
high, with an enclosed top and a concrete bottom with wire set in concrete and
a secure, lockable door or gate;
   (B)   Post a warning sign with international symbols that is visible on all
four sides of the property when there is a vicious dog on the premises; and
   (C)   Notify the animal control officer immediately if the vicious dog gets
loose or attacks a person or another animal.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
NUISANCE
§ 90.055 UNLAWFUL FOR ANIMAL KEEPER TO CREATE NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to permit an animal or animals
in his or her care to create a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.056 WRITTEN NOTICE OF VIOLATION; 48-HOUR ABATEMENT PERIOD.
   When an animal control officer, law enforcement officer, or person duly
authorized by the Health Director, observes a violation, the owner or keeper
will be provided written notification of the violation and be given 48 hours
from the time of notification to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.057 COMPLAINT TO HEALTH DIRECTOR.
   Upon receipt of a written, detailed, and signed complaint being made to the
Health Director or the animal control office by any person, that any other
person is maintaining an animal which is creating a nuisance, as defined in §
90.001, the Health Director shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal in
question to be notified that a complaint has been received, and shall
investigate the situation complained of, and a report and findings thereon
shall be reduced to writing.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.058 REPORT OF INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINT; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   If the written findings indicate that the complaint is justified, then
the Health Director, or his or her designee, shall notify in writing the owner
or keeper of the animal or animals in question, and the owner or keeper shall
be ordered to abate the nuisance within 48 hours.
   (B)   In the event the owner or keeper of the animal or animals is unknown
and cannot be identified, the animal(s) will be impounded.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.059 UNLAWFUL TO FAIL OR REFUSE TO ABATE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to fail or refuse to abate the nuisance as
required by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
ANIMALS SURRENDERED BY OWNER
§ 90.070 CONDITIONS FOR SURRENDERED ANIMAL ADOPTION OR HUMANE DESTRUCTION.
   Any animal surrendered by its owner to county Animal Control, the county
Health Department, or county animal shelter, or its designee, may be
immediately placed for adoption or humanely destroyed when:
   (A)   The owner affirmatively represents in writing that he or she is in
fact the legal owner of the animal;
   (B)   The owner directs in writing that the animal may be placed for
adoption or humanely destroyed;
   (C)   The owner agrees to hold the animal control officer, the Health
Director, county Health Department, and the county, its designee or animal
shelter, harmless from any loss or damage it may sustain, including attorney’s
fees, by reason of the destruction or placement for adoption of the animal;
   (D)   The owner transfers ownership of the animal to animal control or its
designee or animal shelter, and the owner releases animal control, its
designee, or animal shelter from any and all future claims with respect to the
animal; and
   (E)   The owner shall certify in writing that the animal has not bitten any
person within the preceding ten days.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.071 DISCRETION WITH SHELTER.
   Upon receiving the assurances set forth in §
90.070 above, the animal shelter may rely on the same and place the animal for
adoption, or destroy the animal, as it sees fit. The waiting periods provided
in §§
90.121 through
90.123 shall not apply to immediate adoption or destruction as provided for in
this section.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.085 DANGEROUS NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall possess or harbor any non-domestic animal that is dangerous
to persons or property, or which has the potential for being dangerous to
persons or property. This section shall not apply to bona fide circuses or
petting zoos.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.086 WOLVES AND COYOTES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall possess a wolf or wolf hybrid or a coyote or coyote hybrid
except as permitted by the state Wildlife Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.087 ANIMALS TO BE MAINTAINED ACCORDING TO ACCEPTED VETERINARY STANDARDS.
   All animals under our dominion, whether kept as household pets or service
companions or as animals raised for food, work, or sport, shall be maintained
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter for each species regarding
sufficient food, water, shelter, and space, and in instances in which this
chapter does not address a specific species, shall be maintained in accordance
with accepted veterinary standards for that species.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.088 FERAL CAT COLONIES.
   (A)   Caregivers of feral cat colonies shall implement proper management to
include as follows:
      (1)   Neuter adult cats;
      (2)   Vaccinate cats against rabies;
      (3)   Notch left ear of all vaccinated cats; and
      (4)   Manage the health of the colony.
   (B)   Animal Control will notify a feral cat caregiver prior to removal of
any feral cat(s) and caregiver will be given a reasonable period of time to
resolve any complaint.
   (C)   Animal Control will notify a feral cat caregiver of any feral cat
trapped by Animal Control that has a notched ear prior to euthanasia, with the
exception of the provisions set forth by §
90.125.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.100 STATE LAWS CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to supplement the state laws by
providing the county a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to
rabies control, in addition to the criminal penalties also provided by state
law.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.101 VACCINATIONS REQUIRED TO STAY CURRENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to fail to provide current
vaccination against rabies for any dog or cat four months of age or older and
equine six months of age or older. Should it be deemed necessary by the Health
Director that other animals be vaccinated in order to prevent a threatened
epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an owner
or keeper to fail to provide current vaccination against rabies for that
animal. The time or times of vaccination shall be established by the
Commission. Rabies vaccine shall be administered only by a licensed
veterinarian or by a certified rabies vaccinator.
   (B)   Only animal rabies vaccine licensed by the United States Department of
Agriculture and approved by the Commission shall be used on animals in this
state.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.102 RABIES TAG AND CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Upon complying with the provisions of §
90.101, a rabies tag shall be issued to the owner or keeper of the dog or cat
vaccinated pursuant to G.S. § 130A-190. An owner or keeper of equine shall be
issued a rabies vaccination certificate.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner or keeper to fail to
provide the animal with a collar or harness to which are securely attached a
current rabies tag as issued under this section and identification tag bearing
owner’s name and/or telephone number. The collar or harness, with attached tag,
must be worn at all times. Cats and equine shall not be required to wear the
metallic tag, but the owner of the cat or equine shall maintain the rabies
vaccination certificate, with a physical description of the animal, as written
evidence to prove that the animal has a current rabies vaccination.
   (C)   Any equine residing in or entering the county shall be required to
show proof of current rabies vaccination.
   (D)   In addition to all other penalties for violations as prescribed by
law, the animal is subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. If an animal control officer can identify the owner of an animal
not wearing a rabies tag, he or she may provide the owner with a written
notification of the violation and the owner shall be given 48 hours from the
time of notification to obtain and/or show proof of current vaccination.
Failure to show proof of current vaccination may result in fines and penalties
and/or the impoundment of the animal.
   (E)   If an animal enforcement officer can identify the owner of an animal
not wearing a rabies tag, he or she may provide the owner with a warning
citation to show proof of current vaccination within 48 hours without
automatically impounding the animal.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any animal a rabies
vaccination tag/certificate issued for any other animal.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.103 ANIMAL BITES; PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   When a person has been bitten by an animal, it shall be the duty of
the person, or his or her parent, guardian, or person standing in loco parentis
of the person if the person is a minor, and the person owning the animal or
having the same in his or her possession or under his or her control, to notify
the Health Director or person duly authorized by the Health Director
immediately and give his or her name, address, and phone number, age and sex of
the person bitten, and the owner or person having the animal in his or her
possession or under his or her control shall immediately securely confine the
animal for ten days at the expense of the owner in the place as may be
designated by the Health Director. It shall be the duty of every physician,
after his or her first professional attendance upon a person bitten by any
animal having rabies or suspected of having rabies, to report to the Health
Director the name, age, and sex of the person bitten, and precise location of
the bite wound, within 24 hours after first having knowledge that the person
was bitten. If the owner of, or a person who has in his or her possession or
under his or her control, an animal having rabies or suspected of having rabies
refuses to confine the animal as required by this chapter or by G.S. §§ 130A-
196 and 130A-198, the Health Director may order seizure of the animal and its
confinement for ten days in the place the Health Director designates.
   (B)   Law enforcement agencies investigating animal bites shall report the
bites immediately to the Health Director, or his or her designee, and give the
names and addresses of persons bitten and owner of animal.
   (C)   Animals confined pursuant to division (A) of this section shall not be
released from confinement except after a visual inspection of the animal by an
animal control officer following a ten-day period of confinement, or by
permission from the Health Director, or his or her designee.
   (D)   Animals confined pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be
confined at the expense of the owner or keeper.
   (E)   In the case of an animal whose owner or keeper is not known or cannot
be identified, the animal shall be kept for the supervised confinement period
of ten days at a place designated and authorized by the Health Director.
   (F)   Badly wounded, diseased, or suffering animals which are suspected of
having rabies may be humanely destroyed immediately, and the head forwarded for
examination in accordance with the latest guidelines set forth by the state
Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Laboratory Services, for
rabies diagnosis.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.104 ANIMAL BITTEN BY KNOWN RABID ANIMAL.
   Animals not vaccinated against rabies which are bitten by a known rabid
animal, or by an animal suspected of having rabies, shall be immediately
destroyed unless the owner or keeper agrees to strict isolation of the animal
at a veterinary hospital for a period of six months at the owner’s or keeper’s
expense. If the animal has a current rabies vaccination, it shall be
revaccinated within 72 hours and returned to the owner or keeper within seven
calendar days.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.105 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies to the extent
that lives of persons are endangered, the Health Director may declare an area-
wide quarantine for a period as he or she deems necessary. Upon invoking the
emergency quarantine, no dog, cat, or equine may be taken or shipped from the
county without written permission of the Health Director. During the
quarantine, the Health Director, law enforcement officers, or persons duly
authorized by the Health Director, may seize and impound any dog, cat, or
equine found running at large in the county. During the quarantine period, the
Health Director shall be empowered to provide for a program of mass
immunization by the establishment of temporary emergency rabies vaccination
facilities strategically located throughout the county.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, the period of quarantine may be extended at
the discretion of the Health Director.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.106 POSTMORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   (A)   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of the
animal shall be submitted to the animal control office for shipment to the
state laboratory in accordance with the latest guidelines set forth by the
state Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Laboratory Services,
for rabies diagnosis.
   (B)   The head of any animal suspected of dying of rabies or showing
neurological signs consistent with rabies shall be surrendered to the animal
control office for shipment to the state laboratory in accordance with the
latest guidelines set forth by the state Department of Health and Human
Services, Division of Laboratory Services, for rabies diagnosis.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.107 UNLAWFUL TO KILL OR RELEASE ANIMALS UNDER OBSERVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies, or any animal under observation for biting a human, or
to remove the animal from the county without written permission from the Health
Director, provided that a licensed veterinarian, or the Health Director, or
persons duly authorized by the Health Director, may authorize any animal to be
destroyed for rabies diagnosis.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.108 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR CONFINEMENT OR DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for confinement or destruction as required in this chapter when the
demand is made by the Health Director.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.109 FAILURE TO REPORT SUSPECTED RABIES CASE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to report/submit to a licensed
veterinarian or animal control officer any domestic or wild animal with
symptoms compatible with rabies. Failure to comply with this provision may
result in the person being liable for financial expenses incurred as a result
of his or her negligence.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION
§ 90.120 IMPOUNDMENT PERMISSIBLE.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or abandoned, rescued from
a manner of care considered to be cruel (see §§ 90.015 through 90.026) or not
wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag, as required by state law or
this chapter, or not under restraint in violation of this chapter, may be
seized, impounded, and confined in a humane manner in an animal shelter.
   (B)   Impoundment of an animal shall not relieve the owner or keeper thereof
from any penalty which may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.121 NOTICE TO OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   Upon impounding an animal, notice of the impoundment shall be posted
at the end of the workday on which the animal enters the animal shelter, and
until the animal is redeemed, adopted, or disposed of, reasonable efforts shall
be made to identify the owner or keeper and inform the owner or keeper of the
conditions under which the animal may be redeemed.
   (B)   The notice shall be prominently displayed with public access or by
other public means at the animal shelter, and shall include a physical
description (species, breed, color, sex, weight, age, and any distinguishing
features) and the time and place of the taking of the animal, together with the
time and date of posting.
   (C)   The notice for livestock shall be prominently displayed with public
access or by other public means in addition to the county courthouse, and shall
include a physical description (species, breed, color, sex, weight, approximate
age, and other distinguishing features) and the time and place of the taking of
the animal, together with the time and date of posting.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.122 REDEMPTION BY OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal impounded pursuant to §§
90.120 and
90.121 may redeem the animal and regain possession thereof within 72 hours
after notice of impoundment is posted as required by this chapter and complying
with all applicable provisions of this chapter by paying any applicable fees as
determined by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Any animal held or impounded in the animal shelter because of being
found running at large shall be released to its owner by the Health Department
Director, or his or her designee, upon presentation of the following:
      (1)   Proof of ownership of the animal;
      (2)   Proof of current rabies vaccination; and
      (3)   Payment of the daily boarding cost plus the impoundment fee, as set
forth as follows:
         (a)   First violation per animal: if the animal is not microchipped,
it shall be microchipped at the owner’s expense prior to return.
         (b)   Second violation per animal: if the animal is intact, the animal
shall be spayed/neutered at the owner’s expense prior to return.
         (c)   Third and each ensuing violation per animal: an amount set by
the town.
   (C)   Any animal held or impounded in the animal shelter because of
violation of any provision of this chapter, except running at large, shall be
released to its owner thereof by the Health Director, or his or her designee,
upon proof of ownership of the animal. The owner of the animal shall remain
liable for payment of the daily boarding cost plus the impoundment fee as set
forth above.
   (D)   Payment of the daily boarding cost and impoundment fee shall not
relieve the owner from the responsibility for all penalties which may be
imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   All animals with proper identification shall be held a minimum of
seven days, and all exhaustive measures will be taken to reunite the animal
with its owner.
   (F)   The owner or keeper of an animal or livestock impounded pursuant to §§
90.120 and
90.121 may redeem the animal and regain possession thereof within 30 days after
notice of impoundment is posted.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall have no application with respect
to animals surrendered by the owner or keeper to animal control or to an animal
shelter for immediate adoption or destruction as provided for in §§
90.070 and
90.071.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.123 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner, or his or her
designee, within the period prescribed in §
90.122, it may be destroyed in a humane manner as approved by the American
Veterinary Medical Association, the Humane Society of the United States, or the
American Humane Association, or it shall become the property of the animal
shelter.
   (B)   No animal which has been impounded for being a stray, or unclaimed by
its owner, may be adopted from the animal shelter during a period of emergency
rabies quarantine invoked pursuant to this chapter, except by special
authorization of the Health Director, or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.124 REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished, every
animal will be vaccinated for rabies if it is at least four months of age or
older. Every person who either adopts or redeems a dog or cat at the animal
shelter will be given a proof of rabies vaccination notice at the time of the
redemption or adoption. For animals less than four months of age, a notice will
be stamped with a date stating the maximum time limit allowed to take the dog
or cat to a veterinarian for rabies vaccination.
   (B)   The proof of rabies vaccination notice will be completed by the
veterinarian and returned to the shelter issuing the notice.
   (C)   Payment for rabies vaccination provided for in this section will be
the responsibility of the person redeeming or adopting the animal.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.125 DESTRUCTION OF WOUNDED, DISEASED, OR UNWEANED ANIMAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal seized and
impounded which is badly wounded or diseased (and not a rabies suspect), and
has no identification, may be destroyed immediately in a humane manner.
Unweaned animals may be humanely destroyed after significant attempts to
contact local animal shelters and/or individual rescuers have failed. If the
animal has identification, the animal shelter and/or animal control shall
attempt to notify the owner before disposing of the animal. If the owner cannot
be reached readily, and the animal is suffering, the animal shelter, animal
control, or any law enforcement officer may destroy the animal at its
discretion in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.126 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS WHICH CANNOT BE SEIZED BY REASONABLE MEANS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal which cannot
be seized by reasonable means may be humanely destroyed by order of the Health
Director, or person duly authorized by the Health Director.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 90.127 KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county knowingly and
intentionally to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement, or otherwise
allow to remain on his or her property, any animal which does not belong to him
or her, unless he or she has, within 72 hours from the time the animal came
into his or her possession, notified the animal control office or person
designated by the Health Director. Upon receiving the notice, the animal
control officers may take the animal and place it in an animal shelter and
shall deal with it as provided by the animal shelter policy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any stray
animal to animal control or any person duly authorized by the Health Director,
or his or her designee, upon demand.
   (C)   Any person or organization who fails to notify the county animal
control officer, or any person designated by the Health Director, within 72
hours of coming into possession of an animal that does not belong to him or
her, shall be deemed the temporary custodian of the animal, and shall be
subject to compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
PERMITS
§ 90.140 SECURITY DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, or use any dog in the county
for the purpose of protecting any commercial or industrial property, or person
on the property, unless a permit has first been obtained from the Health
Director, in accordance with the provisions of this section, and unless the
permit shall remain unsuspended and unrevoked. A warning sign shall be posted
near entrances and exits to property declaring a security dog is present.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, or use any patrol or security
dog in the county for the purpose of protecting any residential property, or
person on the property, unless a permit has first been obtained from the Health
Director, in accordance with the provisions of this section, and unless the
permit shall remain unsuspended and unrevoked.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall promulgate regulations and a fee schedule
for the issuance of permits, and shall include requirements for humane care of
all security dogs, and for the compliance with this section and other
applicable laws. The Board of Health may amend the regulations from time to
time as deemed appropriate for public health and welfare and for the protection
of security dogs.
   (D)   The Health Director may revoke any permit if the person holding the
permit refuses or fails to comply with this chapter, the regulations
promulgated by the Board of Health, or any other applicable law.
   (E)   Regulation standards include keeping the animal in an enclosure with a
fence six feet high, or higher, if the animal control officer, considering the
history, size, and strength of the dog, determines a higher fence is necessary,
and a warning sign (i.e., “Security Dog On Premises”) which must be visible
from 20 feet on all sides of the fence. The owner is required to notify the
animal control officer immediately if the dog gets loose or attacks a person or
another animal.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.141 COLLECTING FOR RESALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect any dog or cat for the
purpose of resale unless a permit for the same shall have been obtained from
the Health Director in accordance with the provisions of this section, and
unless the permit remains unsuspended and unrevoked, in addition to a valid
U.S.D.A. license pursuant to the Federal Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. §§ 2131
et seq.).
   (B)   The Board of Health shall promulgate regulations and a fee schedule
for the issuance of permits, and shall include requirements for humane care and
transportation of all cats and dogs for the compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and other applicable laws. The Board of Health may recommend
changes to the regulations from time to time as deemed appropriate for public
health and welfare, and for the protection of collected dogs and cats, not
inconsistent with state or federal laws.
   (C)   The Health Director may revoke any permit if the person holding the
permit refuses or fails to comply with this chapter, the regulations
promulgated by the Board of Health, or any state or federal law governing the
protection and keeping of animals.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.142 SPAY OR NEUTER OF ADOPTED ANIMALS.
   Any group, organization, or entity offering animals for adoption in the
county must provide proof of sterilization for every animal, six months of age
or over, and prior to adoption. Any adult animal must be spayed or neutered
prior to being placed into a home.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
LIVESTOCK
§ 90.155 LIVESTOCK REGULATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to keep, maintain, or
allow to run at large, any cow, horse, pony, mule, sheep, goat, chicken, duck,
goose, turkey, other fowl, hog, pig, or other livestock or wild animal on any
lot or within any pen, stable, or other enclosure or building within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Not withstanding the requirements of division (A) above, the keeping
of cows, horses, ponies, mules, sheep, goats, ducks, geese, or chickens within
the corporate limits of the town may be permitted if all of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The property on which the livestock are kept is zoned Residential
Agricultural;
      (2)   The area in which the livestock are kept is completely surrounded
by a fence or enclosure, no less than four feet in height;
      (3)   There is provided no less than one acre of enclosed area for the
first animal, and at least 10,000 square feet for each additional animal; and
      (4)   The area in which the livestock are kept is no closer than 50 feet
from any dwelling on the same property, and no closer than 200 feet from any
dwelling not on the same property.
   (C)   Persons keeping within the corporate limits of the town as of the
effective date of this section any cow, horse, pony, mule, sheep, goal, duck,
goose, or chicken may keep the animal, unless the animal becomes a nuisance to
adjacent properties, in which case the animal must be removed within 90 days
after written notice is provided by the town to the property owner. Persons
keeping or maintaining within the corporate limits as of the effective date of
this section any hog, hogs, pig, or pigs shall remove the animals within 30
days after notice is provided by the town to the property owner.
   (D)   Chickens may be kept for purposes other than as part of a bona fide
agricultural operation, provided that they shall be allowed only in the R-10,
R-20, RA-40, I and TBD zoning districts, subject to the following additional
requirements.
      (1)   Maximum number of animals.  Any number of chickens may be kept on a
single lot, provided the minimum acreage requirement of one chicken per 5,000
square feet of lot area is met.
      (2)   Additional requirements for chickens. 
         (a)   Chickens are the only type of domestic fowl permitted pursuant
to this section.
         (b)   Roosters are prohibited.
         (c)   Chickens, roosters and other domestic fowl living outside the
planning and zoning jurisdiction of the town may be brought into the town
planning and zoning jurisdiction for temporary events, such as festivals and
other special events, provided that no such fowl shall be allowed to remain for
more than three days.
         (d)   Coops and YARDING AREAS (i.e., the areas where chickens roam
outside the coop) shall be located in back yards, pastures or fields located to
the rear of a dwelling. No coop or yarding area may be located in a front or
side yard, pasture or field.
         (e)   Chickens shall be kept in coops at night time, but they may be
allowed to roam during the day in the yarding area.
         (f)   Coops and yarding areas shall be fully enclosed by a perimeter
fence. Coops shall be located within the yarding area and shall be set back
either a minimum of 30 feet from solid perimeter fencing, or a minimum of 100
feet from open wire perimeter fencing.
         (g)   Slaughter is not allowed.
         (h)   Provided that the requirements of this section are met, no
certificate of zoning compliance shall be required for coops or yarding areas.
         (i)   Nonconforming situations. The effective date of this division is
September 8, 2015. Coops and yarding areas that were lawful prior to the
effective date of this division, shall be subject to Article 2, Nonconforming
Situations, of the revised Comprehensive Development ordinance. The owners of
coops and yarding areas that were unlawful prior to September 8, 2015, shall
have six months from the effective date to bring them into conformity with this
division. Roosters living within the planning and zoning jurisdiction of the
town as of the effective date of this division may remain until they die, but
they shall not be replaced. Chickens or other domestic fowl living within the
planning and zoning jurisdiction of the town as of the effective date of this
division that are illegal or lawful nonconformities with respect to this
division may remain until they die, but they shall not be replaced.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply when permission is
granted by the town for livestock to appear in special events such as festivals
or parades.
(Prior Code, § 81.01) (Am. Ord. passed 9-8-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor, and any violation shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
Each day’s violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense. Payment of a
fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this section does not relieve
a person of liability for taxes or fees imposed under this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction, or order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175.
      (3)   In addition to, and not in lieu of, the criminal penalties and
other sanctions provided in this chapter, a violation of this chapter may also
subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set forth.
      (4)   The civil penalties may be recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of a debt, or may be collected in other amounts as
prescribed herein within the prescribed time following the issuance of notice
for the violation.
      (5)   The notice shall, among other things:
         (a)   State upon its face the amount of the penalty and any fines that
may accrue;
         (b)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalties within
the prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil action in the nature
of debt for stated penalty, plus an additional penalty in the amount of $25,
together with the cost of the action to be taxed by the court;
         (c)   Provide that the offender may answer the notice by mailing the
notice and stated penalty to the Health Director, county Health Department, at
its mailing address, or by making payment to the Health Director, county Health
Department, at the appropriate address, and that upon payment, the case or
claim and right of action by the county will be deemed compromised and settled;
         (d)   State that the penalties must be paid within 72 hours from
issuance of the notice. The notice shall further state that if the notice of
violation is not paid within 72 hours, a civil complaint for collection of the
penalty may be filed by the county.
      (6)   The Health Director, or his or her designee, is authorized to
accept the payments in full, and as final settlement of the claim or claims,
right or rights of action, which the county may utilize to enforce the penalty
by civil action in the nature of a debt. Acceptance of the penalty shall be
deemed a full and final release of any and all claims, or rights of action,
arising out of the alleged violation or violations.
      (7)   The civil penalty for any offense in violation of this chapter is:
         (a)   First offense: $25;
         (b)   Second offense: $50; and
         (c)   Third offense and thereafter: $75.
      (8)   The penalty shall be paid within 72 hours from the issuance of the
notice referred to in division (B)(5) above. After the 72-hour period, the
civil penalty will increase by $25 and an additional $25 for every five work-
day period in which the fine is not paid, not to exceed $1,000.
      (9)   The notice of violation referred to herein may be delivered to the
person violating the provisions of this chapter in person, or may be mailed to
the person at his or her last known address.
      (10)   All penalties paid to the Health Director or recovered in a civil
action in the nature of a debt, as herein provided, shall be paid into the
general fund of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
CHAPTER 91: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibited acts
   
91.03   Exceptions
   
91.04   Violations and enforcement
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPFIRE. A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking, but not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Town of Carthage Fire Department or other
person designated by the FIRE CHIEF.
   FIRE PIT. A pit dug into the ground or a freestanding metal vessel, in which
a contained outdoor fire is made.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter in such a manner that the products
of combustion resulting from the burning are emitted directly into the
atmosphere without passing through a chimney or a permitted air pollution
control device.
   PILE. A quantity of objects or materials stacked or thrown together in a
heap, three feet or less in diameter and two feet or less in height.
   STACK. A usually conical shaped pile of debris or material, three feet or
less in diameter and two feet or less in height.
(Ord. 22.16, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall ignite, cause to be ignited, permit to be ignited, allow or
maintain, kindle or maintain within the corporate limits of the town any open
burning fire.
(Ord. 22.16, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 91.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Exceptions to §
91.02 above shall include only the following:
   (A)   Outdoor fire pits, fireplaces and chimneys shall be allowed for open
campfires when such fire is not composed, in whole or substantial part, of
leaves or yard waste, and the location of such fire, and the items necessary
for its containment, and provided that the emission of smoke and fumes do not
irritate, annoy or constitute a nuisance to others. Such fires shall be
conducted in accordance with the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, be
contained in a fire pit, or other similar structure, meeting the requirements
of pile and/or stack, and confined within an enclosure from which burning
material may not escape. Fuels for such fires must be naturally cut wood,
charcoal, propane, or natural gas; no construction materials or building
materials shall be permitted.
   (B)   Training fires set for the purpose of instruction and training of
firefighters, public, and industrial employees in the methods of firefighting.
Prior to commencement of open burning, the Fire Department shall be notified.
All open burning for this purpose shall meet the requirements of all state
regulations. If this training involves the burning of a structure for training,
care should be exercised to ensure a distance of a minimum of 100 feet to the
nearest occupied structure, to prevent the spread of fire and minimize the
hazard to adjacent exposures. In addition, adequate provisions shall be made to
provide protection to any and all exposures.
   (C)   (1)   Bonfires, public or private, shall require a permit and are
subject to approval of the Fire Department. Approval will be granted on the
sole discretion of the Fire Department based upon:
         (a)   The proximity of the proposed fire to dwellings, trees, woods
and other structures.
         (b)   Facilities available for fire management.
         (c)   Atmospheric conditions. During period of hazardous forest fire
conditions or air pollution episodes.
         (d)   Type of material to be burnt must be naturally cut woody
vegetation, three inches in diameter or smaller; no construction materials or
building materials.
         (e)   The bonfire shall be no more than five feet by five feet by five
feet in dimension and shall burn no longer than three hours.
         (f)   Any other consideration judged by the Fire Department to be
required to ensure safe burning.
         (g)   Such fires shall be maintained in accordance with the North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
      (2)   Failure to maintain bonfires in accordance with this section shall
constitute fire extinguishment and revocation of the permit.
   (D)   On the sole discretion of the Fire Department when there exists an
extreme or emergency circumstance which lacks any other reasonable means of
disposing of items which need to be disposed of, and not addressed in this
section, the Fire Department may issue a permit to burn. These fires shall be
limited to the disposal of material generated during a natural disaster, such
as a tornado, hurricane or flood.
   (E)   The Fire Chief may approve open burning for the purpose of land
clearing on large undeveloped tracts of land in circumstances where it is
impractical for the debris to be hauled from the site. This provision shall be
limited to areas in the corporate limits of the town that are significantly
rural, or undeveloped; and where it is determined that such activity will not
endanger life, property, or pose an undue nuisance. Before burning begins, a
permit shall be obtained from the Fire Chief upon presenting a valid open
burning permit issued by the North Carolina Forest Service. The open burning
shall be limited in scope to land clearing and debris removal. State open
burning rules and regulations shall be followed.
   (F)   The Fire Chief may approve open burning where removal of debris is a
burden on the landowner due to steep terrain or circumstance that makes it
impracticable to carry to the curb. This provision shall be limited to areas
where it is determined that such activity will not endanger life, property, or
pose undue nuisance. Before burning begins, a permit shall be obtained from the
Fire Chief upon presenting a valid open burning permit issued by the North
Carolina Forest Service. Burning will be limited to naturally-cut woody
vegetation, wood, three inches in diameter or smaller. Piles shall be no more
than five feet by eight feet by up to five feet in dimension. State open
burning rules and regulations shall be followed.
(Ord. 22.16, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 91.04 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to summarily abate any
condition that is in violation of this chapter and that presents an immediate
fire hazard to life or property.
   (B)   Any open burning in violation of this chapter shall be extinguished by
the responsible party or the Fire Department.
   (C)   All costs incurred by the town for enforcement of this chapter will be
the responsibility of the party in violation of this section and will be added
to the fine.
   (D)   A civil fine shall be issued to any person or company violating the
provisions of this chapter. The civil fine for residential violations shall be
$250 and $500 per day for any repeat violation. The civil fine for commercial
violations of this section shall be $500 per stack or pile and $1,000 per stack
or pile per day for any repeat violation by the same person or company. Each
day's continuing violation or failure to comply shall constitute a separate
offense as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(g).
   (E)   Upon the second repeat violation of this chapter by the same person or
company, the town may continue to enforce civil penalties and/or prohibit the
person or company from conducting any future open burning within the town
limits that would be otherwise permissible by this chapter.
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter may be enforced by any of the remedies
set forth in G.S. § 160A-175, in addition to the others specifically set out in
this section.
   (G)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or a
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Ord. 22.16, passed 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Board approval of new streets
   
92.02   Obstruction of streets prohibited
   
92.03   Littering prohibited on streets and sidewalks, private property
   
92.04   Littering from vehicles
   
92.05   Mud deposits on streets
   
92.06   Unlawful to damage street surface or shoulders with vehicle
   
92.07   Maintenance of public areas
§ 92.01 BOARD APPROVAL OF NEW STREETS.
   Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted and
officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the Board must give its
approval, finding that the street complies with engineering standards set by
the Board, and that the best interests of the town would be served by accepting
the street as a town street.
(Prior Code, § 40.01)
§ 92.02 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to obstruct any public
street, sidewalk, alley, road, or right-of-way within the corporate limits,
subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall any object or display remain overnight
or after normal business hours on any sidewalk, pedestrianway, or other
exterior areas intended for public pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Any person or business which allows or encourages donations of
merchandise, materials, or objects shall provide for a drop-off box or location
for the donated items out of view from any public street. It shall be the
responsibility of the individual or business seeking the donated items to
ensure that no donated items are placed on the public sidewalk at any time,
either during or after normal business hours. The person or business seeking
donated items shall be required to conspicuously post a sign in their window,
visible from the public sidewalk, stating that no donated items are to be
placed on the public sidewalk, or within view of any public street.
      (3)   Businesses may obtain a sidewalk sale permit from the town, to
allow displays on a public sidewalk, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The permit shall be valid only for the 24-hour period specified
on the permit;
         (b)   The permit may be obtained no more than six times in any
calendar year;
         (c)   The fee established in the town fee schedule must be paid in
order to receive the permit;
         (d)   The permit must be conspicuously displayed so that it may be
viewed from the adjacent public street or sidewalk; and
         (e)   Exterior displays allowed under this division may be composed
only of furniture items or racks of clothing, not to exceed three items. The
displays may not extend more than 38 inches into the sidewalk or pedestrianway,
may be no more than 48 inches in height, may be no more than 72 inches in
width, and must be adjacent to the building of the person or business who
places the object or display.
(Prior Code, § 40.02)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to obstruct, pile, place, or leave, or cause to
be obstructed, placed, or left temporarily or permanently, any trash, refuse,
garbage, lumber, logs, cordwood, tree-tops, or any other material upon any road
or town street or the shoulders thereof, or within the right-of-way or over the
ditches or drainways of any road or street of the town street system.
(Prior Code, § 40.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 LITTERING PROHIBITED ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place,
throw, or dump any paper, circular, handbill, advertising matter, trash, or any
other thing or substance of like kind upon any street, alley, square, park,
sidewalk, or other public place in the town, or to distribute or place any
paper, circular, handbill, advertising matter, or other substance upon or
within any porch, automobile, vehicle, back lot, or other public place in the
town in a manner as the same may be readily moved or dislodged or blown from
the position where placed by the wind or for other cause to public streets or
sidewalks of the town.
(Prior Code, § 40.03)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, or private
corporation to throw or deposit upon any street or sidewalk, or upon any
private property, except with written permission of the owner or occupant of
the private property any trash, refuse, garbage, building material, cans,
bottles, broken glass, paper, or any type of litter.
(Prior Code, § 82.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, while driver or passenger in a vehicle,
to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the
town, or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 82.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 MUD DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   No person operating a vehicle with dual wheels, or a vehicle equipped with
four wheel drive, shall track or cause mud to be deposited on the paved portion
of any town street so as to create a hazard to the traveling public. Any person
who causes or permits mud to be tracked or deposited by a vehicle with dual
wheels, or a vehicle equipped with four wheel drive, shall immediately remove
the same or cause it to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 40.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 UNLAWFUL TO DAMAGE STREET SURFACE OR SHOULDERS WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to move on, over, or across any bridge, road, or
town street, including shoulders thereof, of the town street system, any
object, tractor, engine, farm equipment, or vehicle of any kind which has
wheels or objects of any kind attached thereto which will cut, mutilate, or
damage the surface of the bridge, road, highway, or shoulder thereof, without
the written permission of the town.
   (B)   Any person or company that damages a road or town street that results
from the described act in division (A) above shall be required to reimburse the
town for the damages within 30 days after being requested by the town.
(Prior Code, § 40.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises, and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish, and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited, or cast on the street or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 82.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCE
Section
General Provisions; Procedures
   
93.01   Scope
   
93.02   Prevention and abatement of public nuisance
   
93.03   Investigation procedures
Abatement
   
93.10   Notification of abatement
   
93.11   Annual notice to chronic violators of public nuisance and/or overgrown
vegetation
   
93.12   Hearing
   
93.13   Failure of owner to remedy condition; abatement by town
   
93.14   Payment of cost
   
93.15   Action by lien
   
93.16   Other remedies
Abandoned, Nuisance, and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
93.25   Definitions
   
93.26   Administration
   
93.27   Vehicles exempt
   
93.28   Abandoned vehicles prohibited; removal authorized
   
93.29   Nuisance vehicles prohibited
   
93.30   Junked motor vehicles regulated; removal authorized
   
93.31   Removal of vehicles in violation; towing notice requirements
   
93.32   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
93.33   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
93.34   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
93.35   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
93.36   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
93.37   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
93.38   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Housing and Building Code
   
93.55   How subchapter will be known and cited
   
93.56   Intent and findings of the Board of Commissioners
   
93.57   Purpose and scope
   
93.58   Owner’s responsibilities generally
   
93.59   Occupant’s responsibilities generally
   
93.60   Unsafe buildings or structures
   
93.61   Unlawful to rent or occupy property
   
93.62   Unauthorized removal of orders, notices
   
93.63   Definitions
   
93.64   Alternative remedies
Administration and Enforcement
   
93.65   Duties and powers of enforcing agent(s)
   
93.66   Preliminary investigation; issuance of complaint; hearing
   
93.67   Methods of service complaints and orders
   
93.68   Determination, issuance of order after hearing
   
93.69   Failure to comply with order
   
93.70   Remedies
   
93.71   Failure to vacate
   
93.72   Emergency enforcement
   
93.73   Penalties and fees
   
93.74   Collection of costs
   
93.75   Notice of lis pendens
Minimum Standards
   
93.80   International Property Maintenance Code adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS; PROCEDURES
§ 93.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter provides for the prevention and abatement of public
nuisances caused by the uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds and grass and the
accumulation of refuse; for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned
and junked motor vehicles, equipment and for the regulations and control of
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in the Town of Carthage, North
Carolina.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Carthage is authorized under
G.S. §§ 160A-175, 160A-192 and 160A-193 to abate nuisances, particularly
insofar as they may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health of its
citizens and residents.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Carthage is authorized by
G.S. § 160A-303 to provide by ordinance for the removal and disposal of junked
and abandoned motor vehicles from the public streets or on public or private
property within the town under circumstances as well be defined in this
chapter.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Carthage is authorized and
empowered under G.S. § 160A-184 to regulate, restrict, or prohibit by ordinance
the production or omission of noise or amplified speech, music or other sounds
that tend to annoy, disturb or frighten its citizens.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Carthage is authorized under
the General Statutes of North Carolina to impose liens, prescribe legal
remedies and prescribe penalties for the violation of any regulations,
restrictions or failure to abate any nuisances hereunder that may be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizens and residents.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Carthage is authorized by
G.S. §§ 160D-1117, 160D-1127 and 160D-1201 et seq. to provide by ordinance for
the repair or removal of unsafe buildings and to repair, close or demolish
unsafe, dilapidated and/or abandoned non-residential buildings or structures
and/or dwellings and to establish minimum standards for housing within the
town's jurisdiction under circumstances and following the procedures as are
defined in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1994; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-1997; Am. Ord. passed 3-17-2015;
Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.02 PREVENTION AND ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or
other parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance.
      (1)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of eight inches.
      (2)   The uncontrolled growth of bushes, weeds, vines, shrubbery and
other vegetation that is or is likely to become a breeding ground, a habitat
for or a harbor for rats, mice and other undesirable animals, mosquitos, flies,
insects, snakes or other pests; or may conceal broken bottles, jagged edges,
old boards with nails, sharp objects or other similar dangerous conditions that
are likely to cause injury.
      (3)   The accumulation of rubbish, trash, junk, glass, equipment or
building material that is causing a fire hazard; the accumulation of stagnant
water; or the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind.
      (4)   The accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odor or vapors or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes or
vermin of any kind.
      (5)   The use of carports, open and screened porches, decks, open garages
and other outdoor areas for a period greater than 24-hours in duration as a
storage or collection place for boxes, appliances, furniture (but not typical
outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk, garbage, old, worn out,
broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans, containers, household goods
or other similar condition that may increase the likelihood of a fire; may
conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place or habitat for mice, rats
or other pests; or create an unattractive condition or visually blighted
property.
      (6)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches, chairs
or other indoor-type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor vehicles
or other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer on any open
porch, carport, stoop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio or other outdoor area that
is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks.
      (7)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples, or sharp objects and
edges), unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit.
      (8)   A storage place or place of collection for broken bottles, glass,
tin, aluminum or other sharp, pointed, jagged objects or rusted metal.
      (9)   A collection place for paper, trash and plastic, discarded cups,
food wrappers and containers or other materials that are likely to be blown
from place to place.
      (10)   An open or unsecured storage place for chemicals, acids, oils,
gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or combustible
liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous substances,
gasses or vapors.
      (11)   Unacceptable noise levels as determined by the Police Department
upon inspection. UNACCEPTABLE NOISE LEVELS are continuous noises that interfere
with the public's ability to sleep, converse or conduct business.
      (12)   Any condition detrimental to the public health that violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
   (B)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the above, the following uses and the
conditions associated with such uses shall not be considered as a nuisance,
unless there are other circumstances that cause the use and/or the condition to
become a nuisance.
      Businesses. Unless expressly approved as part of a site plan or expressly
allowed by land development regulations, outdoor storage for commercial and
industrial uses is not permitted.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1997; Am. Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 7-18-2016;
Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.03 INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES.
   The Town Manager, upon notice from any person of the possible existence of
any of the conditions described in § 93.02, shall cause to be made by the
appropriate County Health Department official, or town official, such
investigation as may be necessary to determine whether conditions exist which
may constitute a public nuisance as declared in §
93.02.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
ABATEMENT
§ 93.10 NOTIFICATION OF ABATEMENT.
   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Town Manager or his or her designee shall give notice to
the owner of the property upon which the conditions exist, that the nuisance
must be abated within ten calendar days after the date such notice is mailed or
posted. The notice shall be sent by first class, registered mail with return
receipt requested, certified mail with return receipt requested, designated
delivery service authorized under 26 U.S.C § 7502(f)(2) or any method
permissible under G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 4 Process to the owner at his or her last
known address; if, after exercising reasonable diligence, no owner can be
ascertained and no person is in possession of the property, or if the certified
notice is refused or unclaimed, then the notice shall be given by posting the
notice conspicuously upon the subject property. The notice shall provide that a
hearing on the notice be held at the date, time and place specified in the
order, but no less that 13 days from the date the notice is mailed.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2000; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.11 ANNUAL NOTICE TO CHRONIC VIOLATORS OF PUBLIC NUISANCE AND/OR OVERGROWN
VEGETATION.
   (A)   Chronic violator defined. A person who owns property whereupon, in the
previous calendar year, the town gave notice of violation at least three times
under any provision of §§ 93.01 through 93.03, 93.10 through 93.16, and 93.25
through 93.38.
   (B)   Notice. The notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail. When
service is attempted by registered or certified mail, a copy of the notice may
also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If service
by regular mail is used, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected.
   (C)   Action by town. The town may notify a chronic violator of the town's
public nuisance ordinance that, if the violator's property is found to be in
violation of the ordinance, the town shall, without further notice in the
calendar year following the year in which three notices were given, take action
to remedy the violation, and the expense of the action shall become a lien upon
the property and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.12 HEARING.
   The Town Manager or designee shall hold a hearing, at which time the
property owner may be heard regarding the nuisance. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the Town Manager or designee may issue an order requiring that the
nuisance(s) be abated in no less than seven calendar days.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.13 FAILURE OF OWNER TO REMEDY CONDITION: ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within seven days from receipt of the order following the hearing, the Town
Manager or designee shall cause said condition to be removed or otherwise
remedied by having employees of the town or its subcontractors to go upon the
premises and remove or otherwise abate such nuisance, under the supervision of
an officer or employee designated by the Town Manager. Any person who has been
ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within the time allowed by this
chapter, request the town in writing to remove such condition, the cost of
which shall be paid by the person making such request.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.14 PAYMENT OF COST.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance, shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel of land,
and it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to mail a statement of such charges
to the owner or other person in possession of such premises with instructions
that such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.15 ACTION BY LIEN.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in §
93.10, such charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.16 OTHER REMEDIES.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances against any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions
hereof. This subchapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 93.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned vehicle is one that is left:
      (1)   Upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance
prohibiting parking.
      (2)   On property owned or operated by the town, for longer than 24
hours.
      (3)   On private property without the consent of the owner, occupant or
lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
      (4)   On a public street or highway, and is either:
         (a)   Left for longer than seven days; or
         (b)   Determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring
public.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the code enforcement officer, respectively, designated to authorize the removal
of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   ENCLOSED AREA. An area shall be deemed an enclosed area when surrounded by a
fence, wall or other structure that is at least seven feet tall measured from
the ground, is constructed of an opaque material, and surrounds the area on all
sides, such that abandoned or junked vehicles behind the said fence, wall or
other structure are not visible from the public right-of-way or other private
or public property.
   ENCLOSED STRUCTURE. A garage or building structure erected pursuant to the
lawful issuance of a building permit, constructed in accordance with all
applicable zoning and building code regulations and which provides a complete
enclosure such that abandoned or junked vehicles are not visible from the
public right-of-way or other private or public property.
   HIGHWAY. Defined, pursuant to G.S. § 20-4.01(13), as the entire width
between property or right-of-way lines of every way or place of whatever
nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of
right for the purposes of vehicular traffic. The terms HIGHWAY, STREET, ROAD
and other cognates are included within the foregoing definition.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined by G.S. § 160A-303.2, a vehicle which does
not display a current license plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Any machine designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful, including a
vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food or animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which is a place in which debris, bottles or other solid waste
is discarded and is present within the vehicle;
      (9)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; and/or
      (10)   Any vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard and a
public health nuisance by the Moore County Department of Health.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.26 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and code enforcement officer shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department shall
be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways within the town
and on property owned by the town. The code enforcement officer shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property. The town may, on
an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses
to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and
junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and applicable state
laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority
or powers of officers of the Police Department or Fire Department in enforcing
other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.27 VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junk yard as defined in
G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junk Yard Control Act, the same being
G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq., and in compliance with applicable zoning standards;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   Within either:
      (1)   An enclosed area on private property; or
      (2)   An enclosed area in the rear or side yard of the place of business
of an automobile repair business; provided:
         (a)   The vehicle is being kept pursuant to the operation of that
business, provided that this exception shall expire after a vehicle has been on
the property for a period of 180 days; and
         (b)   The movement of a vehicle from the enclosed area to an
unenclosed area at the same location shall not be considered removal of the
vehicle from the enclosed area;
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town; or
   (E)   Covered with a fitted car cover designed for that vehicle and parked
on property so that the vehicle cannot be seen from a public street or abutting
property.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.28 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as
the term is defined in §
93.25 above.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.29 NUISANCE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the code enforcement officer may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health and/or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle
as defined above and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.30 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle, as defined in this chapter after finding, in writing, that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
private property owner. The finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.31 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION; TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
93.32 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notice shall retain a written record to show the
names and addresses to which it was mailed, and the date mailed. If the names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, but no sooner than
seven days after the notice is affixed. Whether notice is by first class mail
or by posting as provided above, the notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date, not sooner than seven days after
the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is removed by the owner or
legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned
or is a nuisance vehicle, or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal
shall be made to the Town Manager in writing, who shall set a time for the
appeal and hear it within a reasonable amount of time, not less than ten nor
more than 30 days after receiving the request for the appeal. Further
proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and
decided. The decision of the Town Manager shall be appealable to District
Court.
   (C)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town. Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, and
the notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (D)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone. However, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, a written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (C)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or the owner's
agent.
   (E)   If the vehicle is registered in the state of North Carolina, notice
shall be given within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the State
of North Carolina, notice shall be given to the registered owner within 72
hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (F)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify the owner of the information set forth in subsections
(C)(1) through (5) above.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.32 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances justifying removal of
vehicles without prior notice include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the public streets and highways, for which
the Police Department hereby determines that immediate removal of the same may
be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in a loading zone; or
         (e)   Parked in a fire lane.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles, and with respect to abandoned
or nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing town official
finds a special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public
health, safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner so as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.33 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive the hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.34 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.35 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. § 44A.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.36 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the code enforcement officer. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof. The town will not remove or dispose of
any motor vehicle that is used on a regular basis for business or personal use.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.37 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
§ 93.38 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-17-2016)
HOUSING AND BUILDING CODE
§ 93.55 HOW SUBCHAPTER WILL BE KNOWN AND CITED.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the "Housing and Building Code"
and may be referred to herein as "this subchapter".
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.56 INTENT AND FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared that the existence and occupation of
dwellings in this town's jurisdiction that are unfit for human habitation are
inimical to the welfare and dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and
morals of the people of this town and county, and that a public necessity
exists for the repair, closing or demolition of such dwellings. Whenever this
town finds that there exists in the town dwellings that are unfit for human
habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire,
accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities, or due to other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or
unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or
otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town; and
   (B)   It is hereby found that when there exists within the town's
jurisdiction structures which the Board of Commissioners find to be hazardous
to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the town due to the
attraction of insects and/or snakes and/or rodents or conditions creating a
fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children or
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children or conditions creating frequent use by vagrants as living quarters
in the absence of sanitary facilities; therefore
   (C)   The town is authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-1127 and 160D-1201 to exercise
its police powers to repair, close or demolish the dwellings in the manner
herein provided; and pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. §§ 160A-193,
160D-1127 and 160D-1201, it is the further intent of this subchapter to provide
for the repair, closing or demolition of any such unsafe or unsanitary
dwellings, and abandoned structures in accordance with the provisions as are
set forth in this subchapter for the repair, closing or demolition of dwellings
and/or structures, and to establish minimum standards of fitness for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.57 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to stop, remedy and prevent the
decay and deterioration of places of habitation and to eliminate blighted
neighborhoods by providing minimum requirements for dwellings for the
protection of life, health, safety, welfare and property of the owners and
occupants of dwellings and the general public.
   (B)   Additionally, the purpose of this subchapter is to stop, remedy and
prevent the decay and deterioration of places of non-residential buildings and
structures for the protection of life, health, safety, welfare and property of
the owners and occupants of non-residential buildings and the general public.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter apply to all residential buildings,
and their accessory structures, all non-residential buildings and non-
residential structures within the town's jurisdiction as now or may later be
fixed. Demountable buildings or structures when used, or intended to be used,
for human habitation, shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.58 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES GENERALLY.
   An owner remains liable for duties imposed by this subchapter even though:
   (A)   An obligation is also imposed on the occupants; or
   (B)   The owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupant(s) the duty of
furnishing required equipment or complying with this subchapter.
   (C)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public area of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (D)   In all cases, the owner shall be responsible for the availability of
rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to §§
93.66 et seq. that violations of this subchapter were caused solely by a tenant
(s) or tenants' guests. Owner(s) are responsible for ensuring that the dwelling
or building is brought into compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.59 OCCUPANT’S RESPONSIBILITIES GENERALLY.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall:
   (A)   Cleanliness. Keep that part of his or her dwelling and dwelling unit
and premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Rubbish and garbage. Dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in
a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities.
   (C)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Keep all supplied plumbing fixtures
therein in a sanitary condition and be responsible for the exercise of
reasonable care in the proper use and operation of same.
   (D)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. Not destroy, deface, or
impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any part of the structure of a
dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.60 UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Residential buildings. Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a
human habitation, or held out for use as a human habitation shall comply with
all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation and all other
applicable requirements of this subchapter.
      (1)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation any dwelling or dwelling unit which does
not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation
and all other applicable requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit. The inspector will
determine that a residential building is unfit for human habitation if any of
the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists,
rafters, or other structural members list, lean or buckle, and/or are rotten,
deteriorated, or damaged, and/or have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents. Supporting members are not adequate if 33% or more are damaged or
deteriorated. Non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or coverings are not
adequate if 55% or more are damaged or deteriorated.
         (b)   Floors or roofs have inadequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Supporting members are not adequate
if 33% or more are damaged or deteriorated. Non-supporting, enclosing or
outside walls or covering are not adequate if 55% or more are damaged or
deteriorated.
         (c)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports are deteriorated or damaged.
         (d)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts and
appurtenances are maintained in such condition that they will fail or collapse.
         (e)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic are not
provided.
         (f)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets, and hallways
are not furnished of suitable materials, which will by use of reasonable
household methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and are not maintained in
such manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy
between various spaces.
         (g)   The roof, flashing, exterior walls, floors, and all doors and
windows exposed to the weather are not constructed and maintained so as to be
weather and watertight.
         (h)   Chimneys or parts thereof are defective, deteriorated or in
danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to constitute a fire
hazard.
         (i)   The ground is used for floors, or wood floors are on the ground.
      (3)   Irrespective of division (A)(2) above, the enforcing agent shall
find residential dwelling units to be unfit for human habitation if a dwelling
unit contains more than five separate types of violations of any of the minimum
standards set forth in the subchapter.
   (B)   Both residential and non-residential buildings and structures. Every
structure within the town's jurisdiction shall be deemed in violation of this
subchapter whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the health, safety
or welfare of the town citizens. The enforcing agent may declare a non-
residential structure or building to be unsafe as a result of:
      (1)   Vacancy or abandonment;
      (2)   Dilapidated conditions causing or contributing to blight, disease
and/or safety hazards;
      (3)   The attraction of insects, rodents and/or snakes including the
collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which might attract
rodents, snakes and/or insects or become breeding places for rodents, snakes
and/or insects;
      (4)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (5)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, such as the
use of such structure by children as a play area, or violations of the State
Building Code which might result in danger to children using the structure as a
play area if the structure is also vacant and abandoned. If the structure meets
the criteria of the preceding sentence and is within a community development
area, then the structure may be declared unsafe;
      (6)   Repeated use of such structure in the absence of sanitary
facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating;
      (7)   In violation of the State Building Code, or the State Electrical
Code or the Fire Prevention Code which constitutes a fire hazard in such
structure or the International Property Management Code as adopted by the town
in §
93.80; and
      (8)   Violation of the standards established by the town in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Unsafe buildings condemned in localities, see G.S. § 160D-1127
§ 93.61 UNLAWFUL TO RENT OR OCCUPY PROPERTY.
   (A)   If any order issued and served in accordance with this subchapter
requires that a dwelling or dwelling unit be closed and vacated and said order
is not complied with within the time specified therein, it shall be unlawful
for any person that had knowledge of the issuance of the order to occupy any
portion of the building under order for any purpose.
   (B)   When the enforcing agent finds that a building is unfit for human
habitation within the meaning of this subchapter and has notified the owner to
such effect and the time limit set by the inspector for the correction of
defects and vacating same has expired, it shall be unlawful for any person
(including, but not limited to, owner or owner's agent) to receive rentals,
offer for rent, or occupy said building/dwelling unit for any purpose.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.62 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF ORDERS, NOTICES.
   No person, without the written consent of the inspector, shall remove or
permit the removal of any complaint, notice or order posted in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.63 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this subchapter.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having adequate access to light and air from windows located partly
or wholly below the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling may be unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by the inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
improved, repaired, or altered to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value,
as determined by the inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home or part
thereof which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living,
sleeping or habitation by human occupants and includes any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it
does not include any manufactured home of health care home which is used solely
for a seasonal vacation purpose. Temporary housing, except for temporary family
health care structures as defined below, shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
The term DWELLING shall include within its meaning the terms rooming house and
rooming unit, as hereinafter defined.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the inspector.
   GARBAGE. The waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and
consumption of food.
   GENDER. Words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter gender.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathroom, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communication
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, or any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. The Carthage Town Manager or his or her designee or agent.
INSPECTOR shall be synonymous with "public officer," as that term is used in
G.S. Chapter 160D, Art. 6, Minimum Housing.
   MULTIPLE DWELLINGS. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANCY. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OPEN STORAGE. Means the outside or open-air placement, for a continuous 24-
hour period, or more, of any item including but not limited to boxes,
appliances, furniture (but not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools,
equipment, junk, garbage, old, worn out, broken or discarded machinery and
equipment, cans, containers, household goods or other similar condition that
may increase the likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be
a breeding place or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or create an
unattractive condition or visually blighted property.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
      (2)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit; or
      (3)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit
or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the actual owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be
bound to comply with the provisions of this subchapter and of rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were
the owner.
   PARTY or PARTIES-IN-INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations
who have interests of record in a non-residential building or structure,
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or other legal entity.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units,
(mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed washing
machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any officer who is in charge of any department or branch
of the government of the Town of Carthage or Moore County, or the State of
North Carolina relating to health, fire, building regulations or other
activities concerning dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to four or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner of operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living or sleeping but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-food waste materials. The term shall include items such as:
paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches,
yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral, glass and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. A transportable residential
structure as authorized by G.S. § 160D-915, providing an environment
facilitating a caregiver's provision of care for a mentally or physically
impaired person that:
      (1)   Is primarily assembled at a location other than its site of
installation;
      (2)   Is limited to one occupant who shall be the mentally or physically
impaired person;
      (3)   Has no more than 300 gross square feet; and
      (4)   Complies with applicable provisions of the State Building Code and
G.S. § 143-139.1(b). These structures are deemed to be permitted accessory
structures by state law.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities on the same premises for more
than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or more
of the minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this subchapter.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
   WORDS HAVING CERTAIN MEANING. Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT,
ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT, or PREMISES are used in this subchapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.64 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to impair or limit in any way the
power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause their abatement
by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this subchapter by criminal
process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 or to enforce this subchapter by civil
action pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175. The enforcement of any remedy provided in
this subchapter shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or
remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.65 DUTIES AND POWERS OF ENFORCING AGENT(S).
   (A)   The inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the inspector to:
      (1)   Locate abandoned structures within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction and determine which structures are in violation
of this chapter;
      (2)   Take such action pursuant to this subchapter as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
      (3)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter and to keep a record of the
results of inspections made under this subchapter and an inventory of those
dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this subchapter
or assigned to him or her by the Carthage Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The inspector is granted and permitted such powers as may be necessary
to carry out the intent and the provisions of this subchapter, including the
following powers in addition to others granted in this subchapter:
      (1)   To investigate the conditions of buildings within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction in order to determine which structures are
abandoned and in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   To obtain administrative search warrant(s) pursuant to G.S. § 15-
27.2;
      (3)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To designate such other officers, agents and employees of the town
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter;
      (6)   To investigate the conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such dwellings and dwelling
units; and
      (7)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.66 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF COMPLAINT; HEARING.
   Whenever the inspector finds any building or structure or portion thereof to
be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the town as
defined in this chapter, or if a petition is filed with the office of the
inspector by at least five residents of the town charging that any structure
exists in violation of this chapter, or whenever it appears to the inspector,
upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof, he or she
shall, if his or her preliminary investigation disclosed a basis for such
charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties-in-interest
in such structure a complaint. Such complaint shall state the charges and
contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the inspector at the
location of the property subject to the complaint, or at another location
within the town limits not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the
serving of the complaint. The owner or any party-in-interest shall have the
right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Any person
desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the
matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall be not controlling in these hearings.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.67 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the inspector pursuant to this
subchapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested or any method permissible under G.S. §
1A-1, Rule 4 Process. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a
copy of the complaint or order will also be sent by regular mail. Service shall
be deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or
refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the whereabouts of such persons are unknown and cannot be
ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if
the owners are known but have refused to accept service by registered or
certified mail, and the inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, and
the serving of such complaint, ordinance or order upon such person may be made
by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least
once, no later than the time at which personal service is required. Where
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or
order.
   (C)   That whenever a determination is made pursuant to §
93.68 of this subchapter that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed
or demolished, notice of the order shall be given by first-class mail to any
organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for affordable
housing that has filed a written request for such notices. A minimum period of
45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be given before removal or
demolition by action of the inspector, to allow the opportunity for any
organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs, lease, or purchase
the property for the purpose of providing affordable housing. The inspector or
Town Clerk shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the certification
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an organization that has
filed a written request for such notices may raise the issue of failure to mail
such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order requiring the inspector to
wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.68 DETERMINATION, ISSUANCE OF ORDER AFTER HEARING.
   (A)   Determination for dwellings. After such notice and hearing as provided
in §
93.66, if the inspector finds that the dwelling under consideration is unfit
for human habitation he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of
fact in support of that determination. The inspector shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order to repair, alter and improve such
structure or remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time not
to exceed 60 days.
   (B)   Determination for all other buildings and structures. If, after notice
and hearing, the inspector determines that the non-residential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public is jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by this subchapter, the
inspector shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order.
   (C)   Limitations on order.
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or
abandoned structure can be made at a cost of no more than 55% of the value of
the dwelling or building as determined and published most recently by the Moore
County Tax Assessor, the order may require the owner, within the time
specified, to repair, alter or improve the building, structure or dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or, in the case of non-residential
buildings to bring it into compliance with the standards of this chapter within
90 days. The order may require that the property be vacated and closed only if
continued occupancy during the time allowed for repair will present a
significant threat of bodily harm, taking into account the nature of the
necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements; the current state of the
property; and any additional risks due to the presence and capacity of minors
under the age of 18 or occupants with physical or mental disabilities. The
order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as directed in the
order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of an unfit order under §
93.70; or
      (2)   (a)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling,
building or structure cannot be made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of
the dwelling or building as determined and published most recently by the Moore
County Tax Assessor, the order may require the owner, within the time
specified, to remove or demolish the structure or dwelling within 90 days.
         (b)   Historic exception. However, notwithstanding any other provision
of law and this subchapter, if the building, structure or dwelling is located
in the Historic Landmarks and Preservation Overlay district and the Historic
Preservation Commission determines, after a public hearing as provided by
ordinance, that the dwelling is of particular significance or value toward
maintaining the character of the district, and the dwelling has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the dwelling be vacated and
closed consistent with G.S. § 160D-904.
      (3)   General exception for vacant manufacturing or industrial
facilities. An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to
be made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.69 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   Remedy. If the owner of any unsafe, unfit or abandoned dwelling or
building structure as defined in this subchapter shall fail to comply with an
order of the inspector to repair, alter, or improve, vacate and close the same
within the time specified therein, the inspector may either request an
emergency meeting with the Board of Commissioners or place the matter on the
agenda of the next scheduled Board of Commissioners meeting. At the meeting the
Board of Commissioners may consider an ordinance finding that failure to comply
with the order jeopardized the public health safety and welfare of the general
public and/or the occupants of the building structure or dwelling. If the Board
finds that the public or occupant's health and safety are jeopardized, the
Board shall adopt an ordinance:
      (1)   Describing the property;
      (2)   Listing the Board's findings;
      (3)   Directing that the subchapter be recorded in the Moore County
Registry and indexed in the grantor index in the name of the property owner(s);
and
      (4)   Directing that the inspector cause the building or dwelling to be
repaired, altered and repaired or vacated and closed. If the building or
dwelling is to be closed the ordinance will direct the inspector to post the
property with a placard reading:
         (a)   For non-residential buildings. This building is unfit for any
use; the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful; or
         (b)   For dwellings. This building is unfit for human habitation; the
use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.
   (B)   Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a non-
residential building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor. Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
dwelling so posted shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (C)   Further in rem remedy; demolition. If the Board of Commissioners has
adopted an ordinance ordering a dwelling to be repaired, vacated or closed
under §
93.69(A), and if the owner fails to comply with that ordinance in regard to a
residence in one year or two years in the case of non-residential buildings or
structures, the Board of Commissioners may consider another ordinance if the
Board finds that: the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair,
alter or improve the building, structure or dwelling in order to render it fit
for human habitation or, for non-residential buildings, to have abandoned the
intention to repair and that the continuation of the dwelling in its vacated
and closed status would be inimical to the health, safety, morals and welfare
of Carthage in that the dwelling would continue to deteriorate, would create a
fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to children and vagrants, would
attract persons intent on criminal activities, would cause or contribute to
blight and the deterioration of property values in the area, and would render
unavailable property and a dwelling which might otherwise have been made
available to ease the persistent shortage of decent and affordable housing in
the town. Any ordinance enacted shall set forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building, structure or dwelling within
90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the building, structure or dwelling within 90 days.
      (3)   Any ordinance so adopted shall be served on the owner of the
property and recorded in the Moore County Office of the Register of Deeds and
shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
      (4)   If the owner fails to comply with this subchapter, the inspector
shall effectuate the purpose of the subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.70 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall also hear any appeals from any
decision or order of the inspector.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the inspector may be taken to
the Board by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, Board or
Commission of the town. Any appeal from the inspector shall be taken within ten
days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with
the office of the inspector, a notice of appeal to the Board which shall
specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the inspector refusing to allow the person
aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in force
until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the inspector
requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect
of suspending the requirement until the healing by the Board, unless the
inspector certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him
or her, that because of facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall
be furnished to the person making the appeal), a suspension of his or her
requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case, the
requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be
granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the
inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to
division (F) of this section.
   (C)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, shall give
due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision within a reasonable
time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or order
appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in its opinion ought to
be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of the
inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, when
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of the ordinance
to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the ordinance
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the inspector or a decision
rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an injunction
restraining the inspector from carrying out the order or decision and the court
may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the inspector
pending a final disposition of the cause. The petition shall be filed within 30
days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision. The court shall
hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree
as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to file bond in any
amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this division.
   (F)   If any building, structure or dwelling is erected, constructed,
altered, repaired, converted, maintained, or used in violation of this chapter
or any valid order or decision of the inspector or Board made pursuant to any
ordinance or code adopted under authority of this subchapter or the General
Statutes, the inspector or Board may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or use, to restrain, correct or abate the violation, to prevent the
occupancy of the building, structure or dwelling, or to prevent any illegal
act, conduct or use in or about the premises.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.71 FAILURE TO VACATE.
   (A)   Notice before ejectment from dwellings only. An action to remove an
occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of
a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division unless such occupant
was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the summary
ejectment proceeding that the Board of Commissioners has ordered the inspector
to proceed to exercise his or her duties under §
93.70 of this subchapter to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
dwelling.
   (B)   Ejectment procedure for residential and non-residential buildings and
structures. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove such
occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-
defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior Court shall
issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a
certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the
summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as
provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor,
and if on its return it appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing
the inspector produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the
governing body pursuant to §
93.69 authorizing the officer to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and that
all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.72 EMERGENCY ENFORCEMENT.
   The decision of the inspector pursuant to this subchapter shall be final in
cases of emergency, which, in his or her opinion, involve imminent danger to
human life or health. The inspector shall promptly cause such building,
structure or portion thereof to be made safe or abated. For this purpose, the
inspector may at once enter such structure or land on which it stands, or
abutting land or structure, with such assistance and at such cost as he or she
may deem necessary. The inspector may vacate adjacent structures and protect
the public by appropriate fences or such other means as may be necessary, and
for this purpose, may close a public or private way.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 93.73 PENALTIES AND FEES.
   (A)   Civil citations. If the violation continues after the deadline to
correct a violation established after the violation hearing by the order
requiring removal or correction of a violation, and no appeal or arrangement
has been filed with the office of the inspector then the inspector may issue a
civil citation with a fine in an initial amount of $100 against the violator.
Thereafter, upon issuing a second civil citation that each day the violation
continues is an additional separate and distinct offense and that additional
citations with additional fines of $100 shall apply each day the violation
continues. Any unpaid citations and delinquency charges shall be cumulative and
shall be recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt as well as any
attorney fees incurred by the town incident thereto.
   (B)   Criminal citations. If the violation continues after the deadline to
correct a violation established after the violation hearing by the order
requiring removal or correction of a violation, and no appeal or arrangement
has been filed with the office of the inspector, then the police may issue a
criminal citation with a fine of up to $500 against the violator.
   (C)   Multiple notices not required. A hearing is not required for issuance
of consequent civil citations with fines after the issuance of the first
citation. This subchapter may be enforced by the simultaneous issuance of both
civil citation(s) and a criminal citation, in addition to any other remedies
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Multiple notices not required, see G.S. §§ 160A-175 and 160A-193.
§ 93.74 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The expense of the action shall be paid by the person in default. If
the expense is not paid, it is a lien on the land or premises where the
nuisance occurred. A lien established pursuant to this division shall have the
same priority and be collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   Liens on residential and non-residential buildings. The amount of the
cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or
removal or demolition by the inspector shall be a lien against the real
property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be filed, have the
same priority, and be collected as the lien for special assessment provided in
G.S. Chapter 160A, Art. 10.
   (C)   Additional lien created in actions about residential buildings. Where
the original action was brought against a dwelling(s), the expense of the
action is also a lien on any other real property owned by the person in default
within the town limits or within one mile of the town limits, except for the
person's primary residence. A lien established pursuant to this division is
inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as money judgment. This
division shall not apply if the person in default can show that the nuisance
was created solely by the actions of another.
   (D)   The inspector will notify the Town Attorney to write a notice of lien
and cause it to be recorded in the County registry and/or judgments.
   (E)   Cost recovery in the case of actions against non-residential
buildings. If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the inspector, he or she
shall sell the materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixtures
or appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the
proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court by the inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause
their removal or abatement by summary proceedings, or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Additional lien created in actions about residential buildings, see G.S. §
160A-193.
§ 93.75 NOTICE OF LIS PENDENS.
   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing or an order pursuant
thereto, a notice of lis pendens, with a copy of the complaint and notice of
hearing or order attached thereto, may be filed in the office of the Clerk of
Superior Court in Moore County. The notice of lis pendens and a copy of the
complaint and notice of hearing or order attached thereto shall be indexed and
cross indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of G.S. § 1-117. From
the date and time of indexing, the complaint and notice of hearing or order
shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the owners of and parties
in interest in the dwelling. A copy of the notice of lis pendens shall be
served upon the owners and parties of interest in the dwelling at the time of
filing in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1206. The notice of lis pendens shall
remain in full force and effect until canceled, which cancellation shall not
occur until all violations of this chapter have been cured with respect to the
affected dwelling and the owner has reimbursed the town for any reimbursable
costs or the owner has demolished the affected dwelling or has reimbursed the
town for all demolition costs incurred by it. Upon receipt of notice of
cancellation from the town, the Clerk of Superior court shall cancel the notice
of lis pendens.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Filing of notice by cities and counties in certain circumstances, see G.S. §
1-120.2
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 93.80 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The following chapters and index of the 2012 International Property
Maintenance Code, as copyrighted by the International Code Council, Inc. shall
be applicable to those buildings and structures, residential and non-
residential, as if fully set forth in this section, with any additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this section.
      (1)   Chapter 3: General Requirements
      (2)   Chapter 4: Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
      (3)   Chapter 5: Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements
      (4)   Chapter 6: Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
      (5)   Chapter 7: Fire Safety Requirements
      (6)   Chapter 8: Referenced Standards
      (7)   Index
   (B)   Amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code which are
adopted and published by the International Code Council, Inc., from time to
time, shall be effective as to this subchapter on the effective date prescribed
by the International Code Council, Inc.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015)
 
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Authority to regulate; scope of regulations
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Rules and regulations
Park Usage
   
94.15   Hours of operation
   
94.16   Vehicles in park
   
94.17   Unlawful personal conduct
   
94.18   Destruction of park property
   
94.19   Interference with surveillance equipment
   
94.20   Fires
   
94.21   Picnic area
   
94.22   Littering
   
94.23   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
94.24   Firearms
   
94.25   Advertising
   
94.26   Misuse of park
   
94.27   Closure of park
Enforcement
   
94.40   Statutory remedies
   
94.41   Ejection from park
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE; SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 18.
   (B)   This chapter shall regulate the use and occupancy and the conduct of
persons in or upon all public recreation areas owned by the town.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beer, malt, wine, spirit, liquor, or other beverage
whose sale is regulated and licensed by the state Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board.
   FOOTPATH. Any path or trails maintained for pedestrians.
   PARKS. Nancy Kiser Park and Caviness Park.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person afoot.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the
Department, permitting the performance of a specified act.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
§ 94.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town has the authority and responsibility to establish and enforce
rules and regulations governing use of the parks, including hours of operation,
proper activities, scheduling of events, activities, and exhibitions, and
designation of activity areas.
   (B)   A copy of the rules and regulations governing the use of the park may
be obtained from the Town Hall. A violation of any rules and regulations
established by the town shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
PARK USAGE
§ 94.15 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in the park area
except during those hours of operation that it is open to the general public,
unless express permission has been obtained from the town.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16 VEHICLES IN PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Drive any motor vehicle on any area except designated roads or parking
areas, or areas as may on occasion be specifically designated as temporary
areas;
   (B)   Park a motor vehicle in other than a designated or established parking
area;
   (C)   Leave a motor vehicle standing or parked in designated or established
parking areas or elsewhere in the public recreation areas during hours when the
public recreation area is closed;
   (D)   Fail to obey all traffic officers and town employees, persons being
authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and wherever needed in the
park; or
   (E)   Ride a bicycle without reasonable regard for the safety of others.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.17 UNLAWFUL PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Engage in disorderly conduct of any kind within a park;
   (B)    Engage in any activity which may constitute a hazard to the safety of
himself or other persons;
   (C)   Engage in threatening language or in excessively noisy conduct of any
kind at any time within the park so that it unreasonably disturbs other
patrons;
   (D)   Throw rocks or objects of any kind. This does not include balls or
games used in athletic events when used in a reasonable manner and in a way so
that they do not become hazards to other park patrons; and/or
   (E)   Interfere with or in any manner hinder any town employee in the
performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.18 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate, damage, or
deface any structure, playground equipment, sign, surveillance camera, planter,
wall, fence, railing, vehicle, bench, tree, plant, pavings or paving materials,
notices or placards, whether temporary or permanent, stakes, posts, or other
boundary markers, or other structures or equipment, facilities, or property or
appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal. It shall be unlawful for any
person to dig or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure or
impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.19 INTERFERENCE WITH SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with surveillance equipment
(cameras, wiring, and the like) in any manner.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.20 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or kindle a fire in the park,
except in a grill provided by the town. It shall be unlawful for any person to
leave any fire unattended, or to fail to completely extinguish a fire and all
the embers thereof before leaving the fire. Lighted or unlighted matches,
cigars, cigarettes, or any flammable material or substance must be disposed of
in ash cans.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.21 PICNIC AREA.
   It shall be unlawful to leave a picnic area before the fire is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage, and other refuse is placed in receptacles provided.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring in, dump, deposit, or leave any
bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, wastes,
garbage or refuse, or other trash in the park. The refuse, rubbish, and waste
shall be deposited in receptacles so provided.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume, display, or sell
any alcoholic beverage upon the premises of or within the park.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.24 FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except law enforcement officers, to
carry, use, or possess a firearm or other dangerous weapon of any nature,
including, but not limited to, archery equipment, air rifles, toy pistols, toy
guns, or other toy arms, designed to forcibly hurl a projectile or missile at
any time or under any circumstances, within the park.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or erect any structure, sign,
bulletin board, post, pole, or advertising device of any kind whatever in the
park, or to attach any notice, bill, poster, sign, wire, rod, or cord to any
tree, shrub, fence, railing, post, or structure within the park, except the
persons as are authorized by the town.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 MISUSE OF PARK.
   Flagrant misuse of the parks will result in forfeiture of future access.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
§ 94.27 CLOSURE OF PARK.
   Any section or part of the park may be declared closed to the public by the
town at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular
and stated intervals (daily or otherwise), and to certain uses.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.40 STATUTORY REMEDIES.
   This chapter may be enforced by any and all remedies set forth in §
10.99, including civil penalties as authorized by G.S. § 160A-175 and other
applicable law. In addition, anyone violating any of these provisions may be
asked to leave immediately and may be subject to trespass for failing to do so.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 22.20, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 94.41 EJECTION FROM PARK.
   The Police Department shall have the authority to eject from the park any
person acting in violation of this chapter or in violation of rules and
regulations enacted pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERIES
Section
   
95.01   Purchase of lot; charges
   
95.02   Prohibited conduct
   
95.03   Vehicles in cemetery
   
95.04   Lot regulations
Statutory reference:
   Town establishment and operation of cemeteries, see G.S. §§ 160A-341 et seq.
§ 95.01 PURCHASE OF LOT; CHARGES.
   (A)   All persons desiring to purchase a lot in the town cemetery shall
apply to the Clerk, who, on payment of the fixed price for each lot, shall
cause a deed or other instrument of receipt therefor to be given to the
purchaser.
   (B)   The cost of lots in the cemetery shall be as from time to time
established by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 42.01)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any rubbish, filth, waste, or other unclean or
unsightly substance in the cemetery.
   (B)   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose, and good order of the
cemetery, nor shall any person deface, remove, disturb, injure, or destroy any
tree, plant, or shrub therein except in the manner herein provided.
   (C)   Trespassing within the cemetery is prohibited, and no person shall
commit any immoral act therein under penalty of the law herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 42.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 VEHICLES IN CEMETERY.
   (A)   Vehicles shall be driven only on the roadways within the cemetery and
at a rate of speed not in excess of five mph. No vehicle shall enter the
cemetery except for the purpose of attending funerals, visiting graves, or
other lawful mission.
   (B)   There shall be no parking at Cross Hill Cemetery between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 42.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 LOT REGULATIONS.
   All lots within the cemetery of the town, and within any extension of the
cemetery at any time hereafter made, shall be subject to and regulated and
controlled by the provisions of this chapter and any rules adopted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 42.04)
CHAPTER 96: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Unlawful participation
Permits
   
96.15   Permit required
   
96.16   Application
   
96.17   Processing time and notice of decision
   
96.18   Issuance of permit
   
96.19   Authority to grant alternate permit
   
96.20   Revocation of permit
Restrictions and Prohibitions
   
96.35   Interference prohibited
   
96.36   Signs
   
96.37   Parking
   
96.38   Dangerous weapons
   
96.39   Sidewalk obstruction
   
96.40   Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between more than
four persons for the purpose of protesting any matter, making known any
position, or promoting certain persons or organizations, or attracting
attention to the assembly.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, or procession of any
kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other public
places, involving more than four persons or more than three vehicles.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.1)
§ 96.02 UNLAWFUL PARTICIPATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any parade
or demonstration for any purpose or in any manner other than those set out in
the application and permit.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
PERMITS
§ 96.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct, or participate in
any parade or demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public place within the town unless a permit has been issued by the town in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.2)
§ 96.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A written application on a form supplied by the town shall be made to
the Chief of Police by persons desiring to have a parade or demonstration. The
applications shall be submitted at least 72 hours in advance. However, where
good cause is shown or, in the judgment of the Chief, the activity would
involve significant political or religious features and therefore be entitled
to enhanced deference or protection under the state and federal constitutions,
the Chief of Police shall consider applications filed after the deadline.
Employees of the Police Department shall immediately indicate the time of
receipt on the face of the application.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by the applicant and shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   If the parade or demonstration is proposed to be conducted for, on
behalf of, or by an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of
the headquarters of the organization and of the authorized and responsible head
of the organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person to be present
and responsible for the conduct of the parade or demonstration;
      (4)   The date when the parade or demonstration will be conducted;
      (5)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for the parade or
demonstration;
      (6)   The time when units of the parade or demonstration will begin to
assemble at any assembly area or areas;
      (7)   The times when the parade or demonstration will begin and
terminate;
      (8)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point, or the location, if stationary;
      (9)   A statement as to whether the parade or demonstration will occupy
all or only a portion of the width of the streets, sidewalks, parks, alleys, or
other public places proposed to be traversed or occupied;
      (10)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles expected
to participate, and the type of animals and a description of the vehicles;
      (11)   Whether minors are likely to participate; and
      (12)   A permit from the state Department of Transportation, if the event
involves state highways.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.4)
§ 96.17 PROCESSING TIME AND NOTICE OF DECISION.
   Applications shall be processed and decisions made as expeditiously as
possible, and at least within 48 hours. If the application was submitted more
than seven days in advance of the event, the permit, alternate permit, or
written notice of denial shall be mailed to the applicant. Otherwise, the
Police Department shall exercise reasonable diligence in attempting to notify
the applicant of the action taken as soon as possible by telephone or other
means. Any person aggrieved by action taken on a permit application may file a
written notice of appeal, first with the Town Manager, and then with the Board
of Commissioners. The Town Manager shall act on the appeal as expeditiously as
possible, in good faith. The Board of Commissioners shall hear an appeal at the
first meeting at which the law allows the matter to be considered.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.7)
§ 96.18 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application is expressly included as part of any permit granted. A
permit shall be issued on a form supplied by the town to the person who signed
the application. The person shall be required to accompany the parade or
demonstration, and the permit shall be invalid unless in his or her possession.
The permit shall be deemed issued under the terms and for the purposes stated
in the application only, unless otherwise noted. The permit shall set the
duration, speed of travel, and space between persons or vehicles in the parade
or demonstration, may prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or other public places to be used, and may impose other reasonable
requirements necessary for the control and free movement of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, and to protect the safety and property rights of
participants and the general public.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit unless he or she makes
written findings based upon specified facts that the activity or event:
      (1)   Cannot be conducted without unreasonable interference with normal
pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area;
      (2)   Cannot be held without unreasonably interfering with provision of
normal police and fire protection to the public;
      (3)   Is being held for an unlawful purpose, or would violate a federal,
state, or local law or ordinance; or
      (4)   Will require the closing of or unreasonably restrict the flow of
vehicular traffic along a highway under the control of the state, in which case
permission should be sought by the applicant from appropriate state officials.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.19 AUTHORITY TO GRANT ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, in denying an application as submitted, may grant a
permit for a date, time, and/or place, or over a route different from that
named by the applicant, or subject to stated requirements and conditions. An
applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within 24 hours after
notice of the action of the Chief of Police, file a written notice of
acceptance with the Chief of Police, on a form supplied by the town.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.6)
§ 96.20 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police may revoke any permit granted for a parade or
demonstration for the following causes:
   (A)   The substantial violation of this chapter or the terms and conditions
of a permit; or
   (B)   Violation of other laws by those participating in the parade or
demonstration.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 96.35 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade or
demonstration being conducted under authority of a lawfully issued permit. No
driver of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a
parade or demonstration when the vehicles or persons are in motion and
identifiable as a parade or demonstration under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.36 SIGNS.
   Signs or posters carried by participants shall be made of cardboard no
thicker than one-fourth inch. Supports for the signs or posters shall be made
of a non-metallic material no wider than three and one-half inches nor thicker
than one inch. The diameter of round supports may not exceed two inches.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.37 PARKING.
   The Chief of Police, when reasonably necessary, may prohibit or restrict the
parking of vehicles along a street or highway constituting a part of the route
of a parade or demonstration. The Chief of Police shall cause signs to be
posted to this effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street if the signs are posted less than 24 hours in advance.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.38 DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   The prohibition contained in G.S. § 14-277.2 against possession of dangerous
weapons and other provisions of law shall be strictly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.39 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   Police officers observing unreasonable obstructions of sidewalks as a result
of a parade or demonstration, so that pedestrians are unreasonably hindered or
forced to step into the street, shall take reasonable steps to make the
sidewalk available for pedestrian travel.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.40 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to or from school classes or participating in
educational or recreational activity, where the activity is under the
supervision and direction of the proper school authorities;
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions;
   (D)   Picketing or other orderly processions on the sidewalks, involving
fewer than ten persons, and conducted entirely within one block, that do not
violate any other municipal or state law; and
   (E)   A parade that is conducted under the sponsorship of the town.
(Prior Code, § 86.21.14)
CHAPTER 97: MURAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Intent
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Location of murals
   
97.04   Criteria for design of murals
§ 97.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the Town Board of Commissioners, for the purpose of
promoting the local economy, tourism and for the purpose of beautifying the
town, to adopt this chapter regarding murals, their location and design.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   DOWNTOWN CARTHAGE. The area bounded by the following streets: Rockingham
Street, Rockingham Street Extension, East Barrett Street, West Barrett Street,
Buggy Drive, Saunders Street and McNeill Street.
   MURAL. A permanent picture painted directly on an exterior wall or on panels
to exterior walls.
   MURAL PROJECT PERMIT. A permit issued by the town to a private party
authorizing the painting of a mural within downtown Carthage.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 97.03 LOCATION OF MURALS.
   The intent of the Town Board of Commissioners regarding the establishment of
areas for murals is to encourage concentration of murals in the downtown area
of the town. However, this intent should not be used as the sole rationale to
deny murals in other areas of the town.
   (A)   Mural design approval required for permit issuance. Prior to painting,
installation and execution of a mural, an application must be submitted for
review and approval by the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Mural design amendment - approval required. Prior to amending a mural
design (whether painted or not yet painted) that has been approved by the Town
Board of Commissioners, an application for an amendment of the permit shall
first be approved by the Town Board of Commissioners. Upon approval, the permit
for the mural shall be amended.
   (C)   Location of murals. It is the intent of the Town Board of
Commissioners that murals be located on the side of buildings that have been
approved by the Board.
   (D)   Downtown Carthage murals. No wall mural shall be permitted in downtown
Carthage except those in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 97.04 CRITERIA FOR DESIGN OF MURALS.
   The following criteria shall apply to the design of murals submitted for
approval:
   (A)   The subject matter shall be of historic significance of the growth and
development of the town and its surrounding environs, to include the
geographical area of the County of Moore.
   (B)   The paint to be used and applied shall be appropriate for use in an
outdoor locale and for an artistic rendition and shall be of a permanent, long-
lasting variety.
   (C)   The mural shall be designed and painted by qualified mural artists
with sufficient knowledge of the design of such projects and the application of
paints for such projects.
   (D)   The Town Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, by resolution,
adopt additional criteria and guidelines for the design of murals.
   (E)   Mural design review. All applications for mural permits shall be
referred to the Mural Review committee. The said committee may offer
suggestions and recommendations to the applicant and/or Town Commissioners to
assist in the decision-making process.
   (F)   Mural Review Committee and application. The Century Committee shall be
responsible for selecting five persons of their choosing to serve on the Mural
Review Committee. The Mural Review Committee will establish an application and
guidelines consistent with this chapter.
   (G)   Fees for mural permit. Application fee and/or permit issuance. In the
event the Town Board of Commissioners determines it appropriate, it may set, by
resolution, any fee for the application and/or permit issuance.
   (H)   Town Board of Commissioner approval. The Town Board of Commissioners
approval of a mural design shall occur only after public notice and an
opportunity being provided to any interested party to present any appropriate
comments, considerations and/or concerns, either in writing or orally, to the
Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   ALCOHOL SALES ON SUNDAYS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of this chapter
   
110.03   Businesses regulated
   
110.04   Period of license; due date
   
110.05   License fee
   
110.06   Application
   
110.07   Refusal of license
   
110.08   Revocation
   
110.09   Change in place of business
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, terms are defined as follows:
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Manager or his or her designee.
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business and franchise
licensed under this chapter.
   PERSON. A natural person, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-194. Nothing herein is
intended to be a tax or otherwise obligate any business to pay a licensing fee.
The issuance of a license in accordance with this chapter does not excuse the
recipient from obtaining any other federal, state or local licenses or
approvals or from otherwise complying with any other applicable laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.03 BUSINESSES REGULATED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), each person who conducts a
business within the corporate limits of the town is subject to the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-194(b) and (c), the following businesses and
persons shall not be required to obtain a license from the town:
      (1)   Any person holding a license issued by an occupational licensing
board of the State of North Carolina; or
      (2)   A transportation network company ('TNC") service regulated under
G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 10A.
   (C)   Any business exempt from the licensing regulations of this chapter
shall provide the Administrator a signed statement that includes the following
information:
      (1)   The names of the applicant and the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The street address of the business. If the business has multiple
locations, the application shall include the street address of each location;
      (4)   The mailing address of the business;
      (5)   The licensing exemption that applies to the business; and
      (6)   If applicable, the state occupational license number held by the
business owner or operator.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.04 PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   Licenses shall be valid for a 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending
June 30. Licenses issued after July 1 shall be valid until July 1 of the
following year.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.05 LICENSE FEE.
   The business registration fee will be made a part of the schedule of fees
adopted by the Board of Commissioners as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION.
   A person shall submit an application for a license to the Administrator on a
form provided by the town. The application shall include the following:
   (A)   The names of the applicant and the business;
   (B)   The name of the business;
   (C)   The street address of the business. If the business has multiple
locations, the application shall state the street address of each location; and
   (D)   The mailing address for the business.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.07 REFUSAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Administrator shall refuse to issue a license for either of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The applicant misrepresents any material fact on the license
application; or
      (2)   The applicant refuses to provide the information required by the
application.
   (B)   At the applicant's request, the Administrator shall give the applicant
a written statement of the reason for refusing the license. The applicant may,
within ten days after the day the statement is received, request a meeting to
discuss the refusal. The Administrator shall arrange the meeting within a
reasonable time.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.08 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Administrator shall revoke a license if it is determined that an
applicant has misrepresented any information required by §
110.06 or that information provided in an application is no longer accurate.
Before revoking a license, the Administrator shall give the licensee written
notice of the grounds for revocation.
   (B)   The applicant may, within ten days after the day the statement is
received, request a meeting to discuss the revocation. The Administrator shall
arrange the meeting within a reasonable time.
   (C)   If the licensee requests a conference, the Administrator may not
revoke the license until after the meeting.
   (D)   If the Administrator revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 110.09 CHANGE IN PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A licensee shall report any change in the information contained in the
license application to the Administrator within ten days after the change
occurs.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-15-2016)
CHAPTER 111: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
111.01   Certificate required
   
111.02   Application procedure
   
111.03   Revocation of certificate
   
111.04   License fee
   
111.05   Issuance of certificate of operation
   
111.06   Appeal
§ 111.01 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, individual, corporation, or
partnership to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the town without
first having applied for and secured from the Board of Commissioners a
certificate as herein established.
(Prior Code, § 50.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Any applicant for a taxicab certificate shall submit an application to the
Town Clerk, providing the following information:
   (A)   The name of the firm, individual, partnership, or corporation;
   (B)   A list of other municipalities in which the applicant operates one or
more taxicabs;
   (C)   The number of cabs the applicant proposes to operate;
   (D)   A list of the applicant's equipment showing the make, model, year, and
carrying capacity of each unit;
   (E)   A statement showing that the applicant has made arrangements for off-
street parking of vehicles on commercially zoned property;
   (F)   A statement showing that the applicant has now in force for each
current year at least an amount set by the town for property damage and an
amount set by the town for liability insurance policies for the protection of
passengers riding in any unit of transportation of the applicant;
   (G)   A statement of the proposed fares for transportation of persons and
property; and
   (H)   A statement of the experience of the applicant in the taxicab business
and the names and driving and criminal records of all drivers to be used in the
operation of each unit.
(Prior Code, § 50.37)
§ 111.03 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to revoke any certificate of
operation when it determines upon a hearing before the Board that any operator
is violating any of the laws of the state or any ordinance of the town, or the
operator is conducting himself or herself in a manner detrimental to the
health, safety, and welfare of the community, or is violating any of the
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.38)
§ 111.04 LICENSE FEE.
   Upon approval of the certificate of operation, the applicant shall pay a
license fee to the town for the operation of the taxicabs or other means of
transportation used in the amount set by the town for each unit in use.
(Prior Code, § 50.39)
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION.
   Upon approval of the certificate of operation and the payment of the license
fee, the Town Clerk shall issue a certificate of operation to the applicant for
each separate unit to be placed in operation.
(Prior Code, § 50.40)
§ 111.06 APPEAL.
   Appeals or hearing set forth under this chapter shall take place at a
regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners. Notice of the hearing shall be
provided in writing to the applicant by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.41)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Peddlers
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required; exemptions
   
112.03   Door-to-door activities prohibited
   
112.04   Solicitation of funds; registration required
Transient and Itinerant Merchants and Vendors
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   License required
   
112.17   Application
   
112.18   Investigation; issuance of license
   
112.19   Exhibition and display of license
   
112.20   Fees
   
112.21   License non-transferrable
   
112.22   Police Department to enforce
   
112.23   Revocation of license
   
112.24   Appeal from refusal of issuance
   
112.25   Expiration; renewal
Residential Yard Sales
   
112.40   Definitions
   
112.41   Prohibition
   
112.42   Permit required; fee; exemptions
   
112.43   Time of sale
   
112.44   Display of permit
   
112.45   Advertising; signs
   
112.46   Revocation or refusal of permit
   
112.47   Applicability of provisions
   
112.48   Public nuisance
   
112.49   Inspection
Solicitors
   
112.60   Benefit car wash
   
112.61   Magazine subscription solicitation
PEDDLERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods or products from place to place and
sells or offers goods or products for sale from a vehicle, cart, device, or on
his or her person.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels uninvited from place to place taking or
offering to take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for
personal services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are
displayed or money is collected in advance, and any person who uses or occupies
any building or premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to take
orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services to be
performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance.
(Prior Code, § 50.14)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in business as a peddler must obtain a license from
the Town Tax Collector, pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 50.15)
   (B)   Persons engaged in temporary sales during town sponsored festivals or
events shall not be subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.16)
§ 112.03 DOOR-TO-DOOR ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, or other seller of
merchandise to go in, or on, private residences or the premises thereof, within
the town without first having been requested or invited to do so by the owner
or occupant, for the purpose of advertising, peddling, or selling merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 SOLICITATION OF FUNDS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any agent, representative, or person to engage in
activity as a solicitor on the streets, in private residences, in offices, or
in places of businesses within the corporate limits of the town. This
subchapter shall not apply to children soliciting funds on behalf of any
elementary or secondary school within the county, to any persons soliciting on
behalf of any church located within the town, to solicitations of funds for
town or county sponsored events or festivals, or to the county United Way. Any
person or group allowed to solicit under this section must first register with
the Chief of Police in person and supply his, her, or its full name and the
name of the organization represented.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRANSIENT AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND VENDORS
§ 112.15 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
firm, or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee, whether
a resident of the town or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods, wares, and merchandises within the town, and who, in
furtherance of the purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any buildings,
structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box car, or boat, public room in
hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops, or any street, alley, or other place
within the town, for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares, and
merchandise, either privately or at public auction, provided that the
definition shall not include:
         (a)   Any person selling at an approved flea market;
         (b)   Any auctioneer licensed and acting under the provisions of G.S.
Ch. 85B;
         (c)   Any person, firm, or corporation who, while occupying the
temporary location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples only for the
purpose of securing orders for future delivery only;
         (d)   Any person selling at an approved farmer's market;
         (e)   Any person selling Christmas trees and holiday decorations;
         (f)   Licensed automobile dealers selling new automobiles;
         (g)   Any person selling at a town sponsored festival or event; or
         (h)   Any sale of a bona fide recognized charitable or educational
organization, where the proceeds from the sale are used directly for the
organization's charitable purposes.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation so engaged shall be relieved from
complying with the provisions of this subchapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer,
or by conducting the transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in
the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer.
(Prior Code, § 50.20)
§ 112.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or
itinerant vendor, as defined in §
112.15, to engage in the business within the town without first obtaining a
license in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.17 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for license shall file a written sworn application signed by the
applicant, if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the
president if a corporation, with the Town Clerk, showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it
will be carried on in the town, the local address or addresses of the person or
persons while engaged in the business, the permanent address of the person or
persons, the capacity in which the person or persons will act (whether as
proprietor, agent or otherwise), the name and address of the person, firm, or
corporation for whose account the business will be carried on, if any, and if a
corporation, under the laws of what state the corporation is incorporated;
   (B)   Proof of a state sales tax reporting number issued by the state
Department of Revenue;
   (C)   The place or places in the town where the applicant proposes to
conduct business, the length of time during which it is proposed that the
business will be conducted, proof or permission from the owner or lessee of the
property to be used allowing the applicant to conduct business at the proposed
location, and a zoning compliance certificate from the Zoning Administrator
stating that the proposed sales activity is a permitted use at the proposed
location;
   (D)   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where the applicant was conducting business within the last six
months;
   (E)   A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods, wares,
or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant, the invoice
value and quality of the goods, wares, and merchandise, whether the same are
proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from samples, at auction, by
direct sale and by taking orders for future delivery, where the goods or
property proposed to be sold are manufactured or produced and where the goods
or products are located at the time the application is filed;
   (F)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and copies of all
advertising whether by handbills, circulars, newspaper advertising, or
otherwise, shall be attached to the application;
   (G)   Whether or not the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime or the
violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and the
punishment assessed thereof;
   (H)   Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the
applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as the
representative; and
   (I)   Other reasonable information as to the identity of character of the
person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant's business
as the Town Clerk may deem necessary to fulfill the purpose of this subchapter
in the protection of the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 50.21)
§ 112.18 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the Town Clerk shall forward it to
the Chief of Police for investigation. The Chief of Police shall complete the
investigation within 14 days. If, as a result of the investigation, the
applicant's character and business responsibility are found to be
unsatisfactory, the application shall be denied. If, as a result of the
investigation, the applicant's character and business reputation appear to be
satisfactory, the Town Clerk shall so certify in writing, and a license shall
be issued by the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The Finance Department shall keep a full record of all licenses
issued. The license shall contain the number of the license, the date it is
issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of
the license fee paid, the expiration date of the license, the place where the
business may be carried on under the license, and the names of the persons
authorized to carry on the business.
(Prior Code, § 50.22)
§ 112.19 EXHIBITION AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license issued under this subchapter shall be posted conspicuously
in the place of business named therein. In the event that the applicant desires
to do business in more than one place within the town, separate licenses may be
issued for each place of business, and shall be posted conspicuously in each
place of business.
(Prior Code, § 50.23)
   (B)   Any itinerant merchant conducting business shall have a display area
with a tent not less than ten feet by ten feet. No items are to be displayed on
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or the ground.
(Prior Code, § 50.24)
§ 112.20 FEES.
   (A)   Before issuing a license under this subchapter, the Town Clerk shall
collect an administrative processing fee at an amount set by the Board of
Commissioners. This fee is to cover the administrative costs of processing the
application required by this subchapter and shall not be considered a tax, nor
shall it relieve the applicant of  paying any other state or local taxes
required by law.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall collect an administrative processing fee for each
renewal issued under §
112.25 at an amount set by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 50.25)
§ 112.21 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERRABLE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 50.26)
§ 112.22 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of the town to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.27)
§ 112.23 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued pursuant to this subchapter may be revoked by the
Board of Commissioners after notice and hearing, for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Convictions of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this subchapter in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 50.28)
§ 112.24 APPEAL FROM REFUSAL OF ISSUANCE.
   Within 21 days after application for a license, the Town Clerk shall issue
the license, or state the reasons for not issuing the license in writing to the
applicant. Upon receipt of the notice of refusal, or after the expiration of 21
days from the filing of the application for the license, the applicant may file
an appeal with the Board of Commissioners for reconsideration of the
application for license. The appeal must be made within 30 days of the notice
of refusal, or within 45 days after the application for the license, whichever
is less.
(Prior Code, § 50.29)
§ 112.25 EXPIRATION; RENEWAL.
   (A)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall
expire 90 days after the date of issuance unless an earlier date is stated on
the license.
   (B)   Any license issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be
renewed any number of times based on the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant makes a written application for renewal stating that
the person or persons managing the business are the same as those listed on the
original application, that the place or places where the applicant proposes to
conduct business have not changed, and a statement explaining any material
change in circumstances from the information given in the original application;
      (2)   The Town Clerk be satisfied that there is not cause for revocation
under §
112.23; and
      (3)   The payment of an application fee equal to one-half of the original
fee.
(Prior Code, § 50.30)
RESIDENTIAL YARD SALES
§ 112.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized, and maintained by an
individual or individuals within a household and acquired in the usual source
of living in or maintaining a residence. PERSONAL PROPERTY, for purpose of this
subchapter, shall not include merchandise purchased for resale or obtained on
consignment or goods or items made specifically or manufactured for sale to the
public.
   YARD SALES. Any sale open to the public for the purpose of disposing of
personal property, not done as or in connection with a business, and shall
include all sales commonly known as, but not limited to, yard, garage, lawn,
attic, porch, room, backyard, patio, tag, and rummage.
(Prior Code, § 50.32)
§ 112.41 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall conduct a sale of personal property within the corporate
limits of the town as defined within this subchapter except by compliance with
the duties and requirements set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.42 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No sale of personal property shall be conducted within the corporate
limits of the town without first obtaining from the Town Clerk a permit, as
follows:
      (1)   The person conducting the sale shall make written application to
the Town Clerk not less than three days prior to the proposed date of the sale
setting forth:
         (a)   Complete name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Location of proposed sale;
         (c)   The proposed date of sale, either one or two days;
         (d)   The names and addresses of the owners of the property to be sold
at the proposed sale and affirmation that no personal property will be sold
which has been acquired solely or consigned for the purpose of resale; and
         (e)   Written permission to hold the sale from the property owner, if
different from the applicant.
      (2)   The permit fee for issuance of the sale permit shall be an amount
set by the town. No site shall be utilized for a sale pursuant to this
subchapter more than four times each calendar year.
   (B)   (1)   Any sale conducted by a duly licensed merchant or other business
establishment at their place of business, wherein the sale shall be permitted
pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance is exempted from the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Any bona fide recognized charitable or educational organization,
where the proceeds from the sale are used directly for the organization's
charitable purposes is exempted from the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, §§ 50.33, 50.35)
§ 112.43 TIME OF SALE.
   Sales shall only be held Monday through Saturday, between the hours of
sunrise and sunset. If any sale must be postponed due to inclement weather or
some other reasonable cause, the Town Clerk may issue, without charge, another
permit to be used on a specified date within 30 days from the original sale.
(Prior Code, § 50.33)
§ 112.44 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   The sale permit shall be posted on the premises where the sale is
authorized, in a conspicuous place and visible from the street to the public.
(Prior Code, § 50.33)
§ 112.45 ADVERTISING; SIGNS.
   No sign shall be exhibited for more than two days before the sale. No sign
shall be placed on utility poles, on street rights-of-way, or on private
property other than the site of the sale. All signs must comply with town
regulations and no more than two signs may be used at the site of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 50.33)
§ 112.46 REVOCATION OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued may be revoked, or any application may be refused by the
Town Clerk, if the application submitted contains any fraudulent, false, or
misleading statements. If any individual is convicted of any offense under this
chapter, the Town Clerk may not issue that individual another sale permit for a
period of two years from the date of the conviction.
(Prior Code, § 50.33)
§ 112.47 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect persons
selling goods pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or
persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(Prior Code, § 50.34)
§ 112.48 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No permit holder shall allow loud or boisterous conduct at the site of the
sale, or allow vehicles to impede the passage of normal traffic. All
individuals must obey the reasonable orders of the Police Department in order
to maintain the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 50.34)
§ 112.49 INSPECTION.
   Town police officers or officials shall have the right of entry to any
premises showing evidence of a sale for the purpose of enforcement or
inspection, and may stop the sale and take steps as are necessary against the
individual who violates the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.34)
SOLICITORS
§ 112.60 BENEFIT CAR WASH.
   Persons wishing to hold a benefit car wash must first come to the Municipal
Building to obtain a permit to hold the car wash. There will be no charge for
the issuance of a permit.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2007)
§ 112.61 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTION SOLICITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any agent, representative, or person to
solicit on the streets, at the homes, in offices of places of business in the
corporate limits of the town, any subscription to any magazine, periodical
publication, or any printed matter to be delivered by mail.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to or affect local school children
soliciting subscriptions in support or behalf of any local public school
project, and shall not apply to newspapers, or to any local person soliciting
same in support or behalf of any local church or any project of the church.
(Prior Code, § 84.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Game Rooms
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Restrictions on issuance
   
113.04   Prohibited conduct
   
113.05   Rules of operation
   
113.06   Revocation of license
GAME ROOMS
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAME ROOM. Any place of business containing one or more billiard or pool
tables, or three or more video or other electronic games or other paid devices
or tables for which charge is made either directly or indirectly. Examples of
GAME ROOMS, by way of illustration and not limitation, are pool rooms, billiard
halls, amusement centers, video electronic devices, and the like. GAME ROOMS do
not include ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS as that term is defined in the zoning
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 86.01) (Am. Ord. 18-07, passed 5-21-2018)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every operator of a game room shall be required to pay annually a
privilege license tax in accordance with town ordinances which apply to the
games, devices, or tables, such as pool tables, coin operated games, and juke
boxes and electronic devices.
   (B)   In addition, every operator of a game room shall apply for and obtain
a license from the Board to operate a game room. Application for the license
shall be made on forms provided by the Town Clerk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a game room within the town without a
license as required by division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 86.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   The Board shall not issue a license to any applicant who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of unlawfully selling or using intoxicating liquors
or controlled substances under the laws of the federal or of any state
government;
   (B)   Has been convicted of any crime which is a felony under the laws of
the federal or of any state government;
   (C)   Is an association, partnership, or a closely held corporation, as
defined by state law, of which one or more members of an association or
partnership, or one or more stockholders of a closely held corporation, have
been convicted of unlawfully selling or using intoxicating liquors or
controlled substances, under the laws of the federal or of any state
government, or of any crime which is a felony, under the laws of the federal or
of any state government; or
   (D)   Employs, in carrying on the business, any person who has been
convicted of unlawfully selling or using intoxicating liquors or controlled
substances, under the laws of the federal or of any state government, or of any
crime which is a felony, under the laws of the federal or of any state
government.
(Prior Code, § 86.03)
§ 113.04 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Licensees under this subchapter shall not, and neither shall their
employees:
   (A)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time, or
the sale or use of any racing, football, or other parlay cards or gambling
boards or devices;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly, or permit
any profane, obscene, or indecent language thereon;
   (C)   Suffer or permit any intoxicating liquors or controlled substances to
be sold or kept or consumed on the licensed premises; and/or
   (D)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been convicted
of unlawfully selling or using intoxicating liquors, or controlled substances,
under the laws of the federal or of any state government, or of any crime which
is a felony, under the laws of the federal or of any state government.
(Prior Code, § 86.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of game rooms
within the town.
   (B)   (1)   All game rooms shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m.,
Sunday through Thursday, and shall close at 12:00 midnight on Fridays and
Saturdays.
      (2)   No play on any game shall be allowed during the times when game
rooms are required by this subchapter to remain closed.
      (3)   All game rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building, and plate glass shall be in those parts of the building facing any
street, so that clear view inside may be had from the street (a minimum of 50%
opening view from street).
      (4)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, or other obstructions
shall be placed between the entrance to the room where the games are played and
the rear wall of the rooms. A clear view of the interior from the street shall
be maintained.
      (5)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate from the licensed
premises.
      (6)   There shall be an adult (18 years or older) managing the business
on the premises during the hours of operation at all times.
      (7)   There shall not be allowed on the premises, during the hours when
the state school system is in operation, any infant or minor child less than 16
years of age.
(Prior Code, § 86.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   After giving the operator of a game room 60 days notice and an
opportunity to be heard at a Board meeting following the notice by not less
than 15 days, nor more than 45 days, the Board may revoke the license of any
game room operator who:
      (1)   Violates the provisions of §§
113.04 or
113.05 hereof;
      (2)   No longer meets the qualifications of §
113.03 hereof; or
      (3)   Has not notified the Town Clerk of any change in the operator's
address. This disqualification is remedied by notification prior to revocation,
or by reapplication after revocation.
   (B)   Failure to pay any legitimate charge or the town for services,
licenses, or taxes within 60 days of notice of the charge shall result in
revocation.
(Prior Code, § 86.06)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOL SALES ON SUNDAYS
Section
   
114.01   Wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages on Sunday mornings
§ 114.01 WINE, FORTIFIED WINE, AND MIXED BEVERAGES ON SUNDAY MORNINGS.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within the corporate limits of the town at any
premises licensed pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 on Sundays beginning at 10:00
a.m.
(Ord. 17-09, passed 7-17-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Assault on law enforcement canine
   
130.02   Concealed handgun carry
   
130.03   Discharge of weapon, hunting, prohibited in Bird Sanctuary
   
130.04   Posters, advertising prohibited on poles and trees
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ASSAULT ON LAW ENFORCEMENT CANINE.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully torture, torment, beat, kick, strike,
mutilate, injure, disable, or otherwise mistreat a dog owned by the town, or
willfully, by any action whatsoever, interfere with the lawful performance of
the dog.
(Prior Code, § 84.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Violation of local ordinance misdemeanor, see G.S. § 14-4(a)
§ 130.02 CONCEALED HANDGUN CARRY.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized and instructed to post
conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within each park, cemetery,
and each building or portion of a building and land owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each
entrance by which the general public can access the building. The Town Manager
shall exercise discretion in determining the number and appropriate location of
signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises, parks, and other lands
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town.
(Prior Code, § 84.11)
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF WEAPON, HUNTING, PROHIBITED IN BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town, and all
lands owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits, is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or otherwise kill, within
the sanctuary established by division (A) above, any native, wild, or
endangered species.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the area hereby
established, to shoot or project any stone, rock, shot, or other hard substance
by means of sling shot, air rifle, bow, or other similar contrivance, or to
fire any pistol, gun, or other firearm within the area, with the following
exceptions:
      (1)   The shooting of bows on one’s own property, or with the permission
of the property owner, for sporting purposes, not in conflict with division (B)
above, as long as the objects projected stay within the boundaries of the
shooter’s property;
      (2)   The discharge of a firearm or shooting device within a legally
established shooting galleries or ranges;
      (3)   The discharge of a firearm or shooting device in the discharge of
duty of law enforcement officers; or
      (4)   The use of firearms in the destruction of rodents or similar
animals or reptiles that are considered a menace to public health or property,
when permitted by special permission of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 88.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 POSTERS, ADVERTISING PROHIBITED ON POLES AND TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to nail, tack, or fasten in any manner
any notice, poster, sign, or advertisement to any tree or pole in the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 84.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
130.01 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with G.S. § 14-
4.
(Ord. 22.20, passed 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   Curfew
   
131.02   Public possession or consumption of alcohol prohibited
   
131.03   Loitering
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or any person standing
in the place of a parent, to permit their child or children, or any child or
children in their care and charge, under 16 years of age, to be on the streets
or about any public place in the town after 10:30 p.m. unattended by the
parent, parents, guardian, or other person having the care and charge of the
child, or some adult designated by the parents, guardian, or person standing in
the place of parents of the child or children.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any child under 16 years of age to be found
on the streets or at any public place in the town, after 10:30 p.m., unattended
by his or her parent, parents, guardian or other person standing in the place
of the parents or having the care and charge of the child.
   (C)   Any person violating division (B) above shall be tried in the Juvenile
Court and, upon conviction, shall be punished as the Juvenile Court deems
advisable as in the case of juvenile delinquency.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 84.20) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 PUBLIC POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by
volume, including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, spirituous
liquor, mixed beverages, and any alcohol consumable.
(G.S. § 18B-101(4))
      FORTIFIED WINE. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing more than 16%
and no more than 24% alcohol by volume, made by fermentation from grapes,
fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or by the addition of pure cane, beet, or
dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure brandy from the same type of grape,
fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is contained in the base wine and produced in
accordance with the regulations of the United States.
(G.S. § 18B-101(7))
      MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, and any other
brewed or fermented beverage or alcohol consumable containing at least 0.5%,
and not more than 15% alcohol by volume. Any MALT BEVERAGE containing more than
6% alcohol by volume shall bear a label clearly indicating the alcohol content
of the MALT BEVERAGE.
(G.S. § 18B-101(9))
      MIXED BEVERAGE.  
         (a)   A drink composed in whole or in part of spirituous liquor and
served in a quantity less than the quantity contained in a closed package; or
         (b)   A premixed cocktail served from a closed package containing only
one serving.
(G.S. § 18B-101(10))
      NON-TAX PAID ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any alcoholic beverage upon which the
taxes imposed by the United States, this state, or any other territorial
jurisdiction in which the alcoholic beverage was purchased have not been paid.
(G.S. § 18B-101(11))
      OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has been broken, or a container
other than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
(G.S. § 18B-300(c))
      PUBLIC STREET. Any highway, road, street, alley, bridge, or way within
and/or under the control of the town and open to public use, including the
sidewalks of any street.
      SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. Distilled spirits, or ethyl alcohol, and any alcohol
consumable containing distilled spirits or ethyl alcohol, including spirits of
wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, and all other distilled spirits and mixtures
of cordials, liqueur and premixed cocktails, in closed containers regardless of
their dilution.
(G.S. § 18B-101(14))
      UNFORTIFIED WINE. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing 16% or less
alcohol by volume made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or
honey; or by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the
addition of pure brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or
honey that is contained in the base wine and produced in accordance with the
regulations of the United States.
(G.S. § 18B-101(15))
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt beverages and/or
unfortified wine on the public streets. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for
any person to consume malt beverages and/or unfortified wine on any property,
whether located inside or outside the corporate limits, owned, occupied, or
controlled by the town including, but not limited to, public buildings and the
grounds appurtenant thereto, municipal parking lots, public parks, playgrounds,
recreational areas, tennis courts, cemeteries, and other athletic fields,
except as authorized by special permit issued by the town at a charge set by
the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open container of
malt beverage and/or unfortified wine on the public streets. Furthermore, it
shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open container of malt beverage
and/or unfortified wine on any property, whether located inside or outside the
corporate limits, owned, occupied, or controlled by the town including, but not
limited to, public buildings and the grounds appurtenant thereto, municipal
parking lots, public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, tennis courts,
cemeteries, and other athletic fields.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess malt beverages and/or
unfortified wine on public streets, alleys, or parking lots which are
temporarily closed to regular traffic for special events.
(Prior Code, § 84.07) (Amended - - ) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Prior Code, § 84.08) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Violation of local ordinance misdemeanor, see G.S. § 14-4(a)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
131.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with G.S. § 14-
4.
(Prior Code, § 84.07)
   (C)   Any person or persons convicted of a violation of §
131.03 shall be punished as a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 84.08)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   [RESERVED]
      
151.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
152.   ZONING, SUBDIVISIONS, PLANNING, AND DEVELOPMENT
      
153.   HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 151: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
   
151.01   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
151.02   Definition
   
151.03   Enforcement
   
151.04   Designation of fire limits; buildings constructed within
§ 151.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   There is adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the North Carolina Building Code, Volume V, Fire Prevention,
being particularly the current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and
except the portions hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, of which code
one copy has been and now is filed in the office of the county Fire Marshal.
This code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein,
and from the date of which this ordinance shall take effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the town as enforced by the
county inspection.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)
§ 151.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPALITY. Town of Carthage.
(Prior Code, § 31.12)
§ 151.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the county Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 31.11)
§ 151.04 DESIGNATION OF FIRE LIMITS; BUILDINGS CONSTRUCTED WITHIN.
   (A)   The fire zone of the town shall be as follows: Beginning at the
traffic light at the intersection of Highway 24-27 and Highway 22, then to
Highway 22 and Saunders Street, then west to Ray Street and Saunders Street,
then to the intersection of Ray Street and Barrett Street, then east on Barrett
Street to North McNeill Street, and then south to the traffic light at the
intersection of Highway 24-27 and Highway 22.
   (B)   All buildings erected in the fire zone of the town shall be
constructed of brick, tile, concrete, iron or other hard, incombustible
material. The outside walls of the buildings shall be as follows:
      (1)   One-story buildings, 13 inches thick;
      (2)   Two-story buildings, 17 inches thick; and
      (3)   Three-story buildings, 17 inches thick.
   (C)   All buildings shall comply with state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING, SUBDIVISIONS, PLANNING, AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
152.01   Zoning, subdivision, planning, and development ordinance adopted by
reference
§ 152.01 ZONING, SUBDIVISION, PLANNING, AND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   The revised Comprehensive Development ordinance, copies of which are on file
in the office of the Town Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 153: HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Hazard mitigation plan adopted by reference
§ 153.01 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hazard mitigation plan, copies of which are on file in the office
of the Town Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Res. passed 3-21-2011)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Flood damage prevention ordinance adopted by reference
§ 154.01 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The flood damage prevention ordinance, copies of which are on file in the
office of the Town Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to General Statutes
References to Prior Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section               Code Section
1-117                      93.75
1-120.2                    93.75
1A-1, Rule 4               93.03,
                           93.67
1-593                      10.06
7A-227                     93.71
7A-228                     93.71
12-3                       10.06
                           10.99,
                           52.08,
                           90.999,
                           93.16,
14-4                       93.64,
                           130.01,
                           130.99, 
                           131.03,
                           131.99
14-151.1                   51.006
14-277.2                   96.38
14-363.1                   90.024
15-27.2                    93.65
Ch. 17C                    31.083
18B-101(4)                 131.02
18B-101(7)                 131.02
18B-101(9)                 131.02
18B-101(10)                131.02
18B-101(11)                131.02
18B-101(14)                131.02
18B-101(15)                131.02
18B-300(c)                 131.02
18B-300                    131.02
18B-1001                   114.01
Ch. 20, Art. 10A           110.03
20-4.01                    71.10
20-4.01(12a)               71.10
20-4.01(13)                93.25
20-4.01(32)                72.01
20-97                      32.20
20-219.11                  93.33
42-29                      93.71
42-30                      93.71
Ch. 44A                    93.35
Ch. 67                     Ch. 90
Ch. 85B                    112.15
97-1 et seq.               31.085
128-1.1                    31.085
130A-184 et seq.           Ch. 90
130A-190                   90.102
130A-196                   90.103
130A-198                   90.103
136-141 et seq.            93.27
136-143                    93.27
143-139.1(b)               93.63
143-237 et seq.            Ch. 90
159-7 et seq.              32.01
159-25                     30.34
159-28                     32.04
Ch. 160A, Art. 10          93.74
160A, Art. 12              33.02
Ch. 160A, Art. 18          94.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3D 51.040
160A-69                    30.30
160A-70                    30.31
160A-71                    30.17
160A-72                    30.32
160A-74                    30.17
160A-75                    30.17
160A-79                    10.01
160A-146                   30.15
160A-171                   30.32
160A-173                   30.33
160A-174                   Ch. 90
                           10.99,
                           91.04,
160A-175                   93.01,
                           93.64,
                           93.73,
                           94.40
160a-175(g)                91.04
160A-182                   Ch. 90
160A-184                   93.01
160A-187                   Ch. 90
160A-192                   93.01
                           93.01,
                           93.13,
160A-193                   93.56,
                           93.73,
                           93.74
160A-194                   110.02
160A-194(b)                110.03
160A-194(c)                110.03
160A-207(c)                51.040
160A-212                   Ch. 90
160A-265                   33.01
160A-284                   31.085
160A-303                   93.25
160A-303.2                 93.25
160A-314(b)                50.37
160A-320                   51.040
160A-341 et seq.           Ch. 95
160A-361                   31.001
160A-383.5                 93.63
160A-493                   Ch. 90
160A-499                   51.040
Ch. 160D, Art. 6           93.63
160D-904                   93.68
160D-915                   93.63
160D-1117                  93.01
                           93.01,
160D-1127                  93.56,
                           93.60
160D-1201                  93.56
160D-1201 et seq.          93.01
160D-1206                  93.75
162A, Art. 8               51.040
162A-9.1                   51.150
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE OF ORDINANCES
Prior Code Section 2010 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2010 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.05
10.03              10.06
10.04              10.14
10.05              10.04
10.06              10.13
10.07              10.07
10.99              10.99
20.01              30.15
20.02              30.16
20.03              30.30
20.04              30.31
20.15              30.17
20.16              30.17
20.17              30.17
21.01              30.32
21.02              30.33
21.03              30.34
21.05              30.01
22.01              32.01
22.01              32.02 -
                   32.04
22.50              32.05
23.01              33.01
23.01              33.02,
                   33.03
24.01              31.001
24.02              31.002 -
                   31.004
24.03              31.005
24.04              31.006
24.05              31.008
24.06              31.007
24.07              31.007
24.21              31.020,
                   31.021
24.22              31.022
24.23              31.023
24.24              31.024
24.26              31.024
24.31              31.035
24.32              31.035
24.33              31.036
24.34              31.037
24.35              31.038
24.36              31.038
24.37              31.038
24.41              31.050,
                   31.051
24.42              31.052
24.43              31.053
24.44              31.054
24.45              31.054
24.46              31.054
24.51              31.065
24.51              31.066
24.52              31.067
24.53              31.068
24.54              31.069
24.55              31.069
24.56              31.069
25.25              31.024
30.01              31.080
30.02              31.080
30.03              31.081
30.04              31.082
30.05              31.082
30.06              31.083
30.07              31.083
30.08              31.084
30.09              31.085
30.10              31.085
30.11              31.085
30.12              31.085
30.13              31.085
31.01              151.04
31.10              151.01
31.11              151.03
31.12              151.02
31.21              31.101
31.22              31.100
40.01              92.01
40.02              92.02
40.03              92.03
40.04              92.02
40.05              92.05
40.06              92.06
40.07              72.04
41.01              50.01
41.02              50.02
41.03              50.03
41.04              50.04
41.05              50.05
41.06              50.02
41.07              50.20
41.08              50.21
41.09              50.22
41.10              50.23
41.11              50.24
41.15              50.35
41.16              50.36
41.25              50.37
42.01              95.01
42.02              95.02
42.03              95.03
42.04              95.04
50.13              32.20
50.14              112.01
50.15              112.02
50.16              112.02
50.17              112.03
50.18              112.04
50.19              112.16
50.20              112.15
50.21              112.17
50.22              112.18
50.23              112.19
50.24              112.19
50.25              112.20
50.26              112.21
50.27              112.22
50.28              112.23
50.29              112.24
50.30              112.25
50.32              112.40
50.33              112.41 -
                   112.46
50.34              112.47 -
                   112.49
50.35              112.42
50.36              111.01
50.37              111.02
50.38              111.03
50.39              111.04
50.40              111.05
50.41              111.06
50.50              51.001
50.51              51.002
50.52              51.003
50.53              51.004
50.54              51.035
50.55              51.015
50.56              51.016
50.57              51.017
50.58              51.018
50.59              51.019
50.60              51.020,
                   51.093
50.61              51.036
50.62              51.037
50.63              51.039
50.64              51.038
50.65              51.050,
                   51.051
50.66              51.052
50.67              51.053
50.68              51.054
50.69              51.055
50.70              51.056
50.71              51.999
50.74              51.056
50.75              51.071
50.76              51.072
50.77              51.073
50.78              51.074
50.79              51.075
50.80              51.075
50.82              51.077
50.97              51.090
50.98              51.091
50.99              51.092
51.01              51.094
51.03              51.094
51.04              51.095
51.05              51.103
51.11              51.113
51.12              51.111
51.13              51.112
51.14              51.112
51.15              51.112
51.16              51.126
51.17              51.125
51.30              51.999
70.01              70.01
70.06              72.04
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.03              72.04
72.04              72.04
72.05              72.03
72.06              72.04
81.01              90.155
82.01              92.03
82.02              92.04
82.03              92.07
84.07              131.02,
                   131.99
84.08              131.03,
                   131.99
84.10              130.01
84.11              130.02
84.12              71.01
84.13              130.04
84.14              112.61
84.20              131.01
86.01              113.01
86.02              113.02
86.03              113.03
86.04              113.04
86.05              113.05
86.06              113.06
86.21.1            96.01
86.21.2            96.15
86.21.3            96.02
86.21.4            96.16
86.21.5            96.18
86.21.6            96.19
86.21.7            96.17
86.21.8            96.20
86.21.9            96.35
86.21.10           96.36
86.21.11           96.37
86.21.12           96.38
86.21.13           96.39
86.21.14           96.40
88.01              130.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      7-21-1994   93.01
—      5-20-1996   72.04
                     93.01 -
—      1-21-1997   93.03,
                     93.13 -
                     93.16
                     34.001,
                     34.002,
                     34.015 -
                     34.022,
—      - -1998     34.035 -
                     34.042,
                     34.055 -
                     34.058,
                     34.070 -
                     34.076
—      4-17-2000   31.100
—      9-19-2000   93.10
                     94.01 -
                     94.03,
—      5-20-2002   94.15 -
                     94.27,
                     94.40,
                     94.41
—      6-17-2002   51.110
—      7-21-2003   50.02,
                     50.24
                     50.03,
—      - -         50.20,
                     51.035,
                     51.037
—      4-19-2004   31.085,
                     72.04
—      - -2006     35.01
—      7-16-2007   51.015
—      7-16-2007   51.112,
                     51.125
—      8-20-2007   112.60
—      - - 2008    152.01
—      7-1-2008    36.01
                     90.001,
                     90.002,
                     90.015 -
                     90.027,
                     90.040 -
                     90.042,
                     90.055 -
                     90.059,
                     90.070,
—      10-6-2008   90.071,
                     90.085 -
                     90.088,
                     90.100 -
                     90.109,
                     90.120 -
                     90.127,
                     90.140 -
                     90.142,
                     90.999
                     51.136,
—      10-20-2008  51.140 -
                     51.145
—      3-15-2010   31.035 -
                     31.038
—      4-19-2010   154.01
—      5-17-2010   37.01 -
                     37.07
—      10-18-2010  Adopting Ordinance
—      9-21-2010   71.10
Res. — 3-21-2011   153.01
—      12-31-2011  30.17
                     51.100 -
—      8-16-2010   51.103,
                     51.999
—      5-21-2013   31.050 -
                     31.054
—      9-24-2013   Ch. 73, Sch. I
—      11-19-2013  97.01 -
                     97.04
—      8-19-2014   50.24
—      3-17-2015   93.01,
                     93.02
                     93.55 -
—      3-17-2015   93.74,
                     93.80
—      9-8-2015    90.155
—      7-18-2016   93.02
16-06    8-15-2016   110.01 -
                     110.09
16-10    10-17-2016  93.25 -
                     93.38
17-02    2-20-2017   51.150 -
                     51.159
17-06    6-19-2017   10.99
17-09    7-17-2017   114.01
17-12    9-18-2017   52.01 -
                     52.10
18-07    5-21-2018   113.01
18-11    9-24-2018   51.040,
                     51.041
18-15    11- -2018   70.02
—      6-20-2022   51.005
—      - -         51.006
                     93.01 -
                     93.03,
                     93.10 -
—      8-15-2022   93.16,
                     93.55 -
                     93.64,
                     93.65 -
                     93.75
22.16    12-19-2022  91.01 -
                     91.04
                     10.99,
22.20    12-19-2022  94.40,
                     130.99,
                     131.99
                    
 
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
Contains the meeting minutes of the Town of Carthage current from January 8,
2001 through May 22, 2023
2001 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 8, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
JANUARY 8, 2001
The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday, January
8, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Tommy Stewart,
Commissioners Bill Walton, Mike Waschsen, and Sam Kelly.
I.   CALL TO ORDER / INVOCATION
– Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order and gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
– Commissioner Waschsen led in the pledge of allegiance
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES
– None
IV.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
   A.   Amendment to the Carthage Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 100 to add
“Automobile Dealerships” as a listed use in the Table of Uses and to establish
a definition for “Automobile Dealerships” – Tom Mohan, Chairman of the Carthage
Planning Board reported the Planning Board was in favor of the amendment. The
amendment was approved by the Board following a motion made by Commissioner
Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. A copy is attached.
   B.   Amendment to Chapter 100, Section 100.39(d) Table of Uses by adding
“Automobile Dealerships” as a permitted use in the Thoroughfare Business
District (TBD), General Business (B-2) and Industrial (I) zones and listed as a
conditional use in the Airport District (AP) – Tom Mohan reported the Planning
Board was in favor of the amendment. The Amendment was approved by the Board
following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly. A copy is enclosed.
   C.   Rezoning of the following properties on Hwy. 15/501 from RA-40 to TBD:
      a.   6.9 acres owned by the Town
      b.   8.83 acres owned by Ila M. Caddell (being purchased by Chris and
Robin Thomas)
      c.   28.88 acres owned by Ila M. Caddell
      d.   7.78 acres owned by Charles and Carol Booth
Mr. Mohan reported the Planning Board was in favor of the rezoning and it was
approved by the Board following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and
seconded by Commissioner Kelly. A map of the properties is enclosed.
   D.   Request from Gray Boyette/Landstar Properties for rezoning
approximately 18 acres off Needmore Road between Madison Road and Jermason
Drive from RA-40 to R-MH for the purpose of establishing a mobile home park
subdivision – Mr. Mohan reported the Planning Board was in favor of the
rezoning. The Board approved the rezoning following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Walton. A copy of the rezoning request
is enclosed.
   E.   Conditional Use Permit request from Donald Dowdy to place a singlewide
manufactured home at 310 McCrary Road. The lot is not in the town limits and is
zoned RA-40. – Mr. Dowdy was sworn in and explained to the Board that the
manufactured home would be located near the rear of the property, which
consists of 7.61 acres. No opposition was voiced. Mr. Mohan reported the
Planning Board was in favor of the request. Following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Kelly, the request was approved
based upon the following findings:
      a.   the manufactured home would not hurt surrounding property values
      b.   the manufactured home would not affect the public health, safety,
and welfare of the area
      c.   the lot is large enough to meet all RA-40 requirements
A copy of the request is enclosed.
   F.   Request from Prissy Newell to subdivide 7.227 acres bordering Barrett
Street, Sanford Street, and Rockingham Street Extension into 11 single-family
lots. The area is zoned R-20. Mr. Mohan reported the Planning Board was in
favor of the request. Following a motion made by Commissioner Walton and
seconded by Commissioner Waschsen, the Board approved the request. A copy of
the subdivision plat is enclosed.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
– The Board unanimously approved the items listed below following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Kelly:
   A.   Minutes: November 20, 2000 Regular Board Meeting
December 18, 2000 Special Board Meeting
   B.   Adoption of topics pertaining to the CDBG Needmore Community Phase II
Sewer Improvements Grant:
      a.   Residential Anti-Displacement and Relocation Plan
      b.   Recipient’s Plan to Further Fair Housing
      c.   Resolution to Further Fair Housing
      d.   Fair Housing Advertisement
      e.   Fair Housing Public Notice
      f.   Procurement Policy for CDBG Project
      g.   Section 519 Certification
      h.   Citizen Participation Plan
      i.   Community Development Code of Conduct
      j.   Flood Plain Certification
      k.   Project Budget Ordinance
      l.   Section 3 Plan for Employment Opportunities for Businesses & Lower
Income Persons
      m.   Equal Employment and Procurement Plan
      n.   Resolution to Execute CDBG Related Documentation
Copies are enclosed.
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT
– A copy is enclosed
VII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Bank of Davie – alley (easement) update – Tim Myrick with the Bank of
Davie informed the Board that the Bank was going to proceed with the purchase
of the Barringer property located next to the Farm Bureau Insurance office.
They were going to close the current easement across their property and have a
10’ easement next to the insurance office. Bob Klug, owner of adjacent property
had requested a 20’ easement.
   B.   Carthage Recreational Park update – Enclosed is a summary of a meeting
held December 28, 2000 at the Carthage Town Hall. Present were: Roland Gilliam,
Stuart Fields, Carol Cleetwood, Stan Williams, Sammy Taylor and Glen Bradley.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Approve municipal ordinance to change the speed limit from 55 mph to 45
mph on NC 22, from US 15/501 northward (Hillcrest) to SR 1877 (Pinehurst
Avenue) – The ordinance was approved following a motion made by Commissioner
Walton and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart. A copy is enclosed.
   B.   Bids for water treatment plant improvements
      a.   General Contract for water plant from Laughlin-Sutton Construction
Company for $1,469,700
      b.   Electrical Contract from Vick Electric Company for $659,900 
A motion was made by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart, seconded by Commissioner Kelly and
approved by the Board not to award any contracts but to schedule a workshop for
January 17 and re-advertise for electrical bids.
   C.   New 2001 Ford Crown Victoria for the Police Department – The Board
approved the cash purchase of the car following a motion made by Commissioner
Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields.
   D.   Heating/Air Conditioning Unit at the Carthage Museum – Hinesley’s
Heating and Air had looked at the unit, replaced the thermostat and gave a
repair estimate of approximately $500 - $600. Mr.Hinesley recommended the unit
be replaced with a larger one. Mayor Caddell said he would seek a second
opinion on Mr. Hinesley’s recommendation.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
– None
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– None
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
– None
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL AND LEGAL MATTERS
– Mayor Pro-tem Stewart made a motion to go into closed session.
XIII.   RECONVENE OPEN MEETING
– Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting and announced no action had been
taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Caddell declared the meeting adjourned.
___________________________         _____________________________
Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
– None
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– None
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
– None
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL MATTERS
– Mayor Pro-tem Stewart made a motion to go into closed session.
XIII.   RECONVENE OPEN MEETING
- Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting and announced no action had been
taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Caddell declared the meeting adjourned.
_____________________________         _______________________________
Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
JANUARY 17, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 17, 2001
THE MCDONALD BUILDING
8:30 A.M.
I.   CALL TO ORDER/INVOCATION
– Mayor Caddell called the special meeting of the Carthage Board of
Commissioners to order and gave the invocation.
II.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Chamber of Commerce – Discuss the Buggy Festival – Bill Scott, Archie
Kelly, Sherwood Lapping and Gail Oldham-Auman represented The Carthage Chamber
of Commerce. They asked the Town to appoint someone to be in charge of the
Buggy Festival. They emphasized the Carthage Chamber does not have the
available manpower to put on the festival this year. Archie Kelly said the
Chamber would financially support the festival. It was decided the members of
the Chamber present at the meeting, Mayor Caddell, and Commissioner Walton
would meet on Monday, January 22, 2001 to discuss setting up a non-profit
corporation so a director could possibly be hired to run the festival. Carol
Sparks Cleetwood was also asked to attend the meeting.
   B.   Water Plant – The Board looked at project estimates with the water tank
and without the water tank. J.   D.   Monroe and Bill Lester reported they had
spoken to the State to see if the Town could proceed with just the water plant
if the costs are too prohibitive for both and were told we could. A letter will
have to be sent to the State explaining the reason for the delay in the
construction of the water tank.
   C.   Set date for budget workshop for FY 2001/2002 – Tuesday, February 20,
2001
was set as the date from 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
   D.   Town Manager Search – The Board decided to re-advertise for the
position with the League, Appalachia State University, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University. The deadline would
be 30 days from the date of publication in the League’s magazine.
   E.   Overtime/Comp Time – The Board asked Interim Town Manager to gather
more information on the definition of exempt and nonexempt employees.
III.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– None
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
– None
V.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Caddell declared the meeting adjourned.
______________________________________ __________________________________
Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
JANUARY 30, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 30, 2001
THE MCDONALD BUILDING
9:00 A.M.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Tom Stewart,
Commissioners Bill Walton and Ronnie Fields.
Board members absent: Commissioners Mike Waschsen and Sam Kelly.
I.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Caddell called the special meeting to order
II.   AWARD BIDS FOR WATER TREATMENT PLANT IMPROVEMENTS
   A.   Equipment
      Bids were advertised for twice and each time U. S. Filter/Memcor was the
only bid received.
      U. S. Filter/Memcor             $ 910,310.
      The Board approved the bid following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Walton
   B.   General Contsruction
      Bids were received ranging from a low of $1,469,700 to a high of
$2,298,864. The low bid was submitted by Laughlin-Sutton Construction of Brown
Summit, North Carolina
      Laughlin-Sutton Construction         $1,469,700
      Less Deducts               ($189,900)
      Revised award amount         $1,279,800
      The Board approved the bid following a motion made by Commissioner Fields
and seconded by Commissioner Walton.
   C.   Electrical Contractor
      Bids were received ranging from a low of $409,000 to a high of $556,600.
The low bid was submitted by Electrical Construction, Inc. of Lexington, North
Carolina
      Electrical Construction, Inc.         $409,000
      Less Deducts               ($27,000) 
       Revised award amount         $382,000
      The Board approved the bid following a motion made by Commissioner Fields
and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart.
   Copies of the bid tabulations are enclosed.
III.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– None
IV.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Caddell declared the meeting adjourned.
___________________________________      _______   ___________________________
Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 19, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
FEBRUARY 19, 2001
SPECIAL MEETING
6 P.M.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Tom Stewart,
Commissioners Bill Walton, Mike Waschsen, Ronnie Fields and Sam Kelly.
JimWhitley, the Chamber Vicepresident for Economic Development met with the
Board to discuss accomplishments for the year 2000 of the Economic Development
Department. Mr. Whitley reported the vacant seat (Bob Boyette) on the Steering
Committee had been filled with Archie Kelly. A copy of Mr. Whitley's report is
on file.
REGULAR MEETING 7 P.M.
I.    CALL TO ORDER/INVOCATlON
-Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order and asked Commissioner Walton to
give the invocation.
II.    PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
-Commissioner Fields led in the pledge of allegiance.
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES
   A.    Stuart Fields -Chairman of the Carthage Recreational Park Advisory
Committee -Mr. Fields advised the Board that the bids received for the park
project were too high. He asked the Board for permission for his committee to
mee* and go over the plans and see where costs could be reduced. The items
required for the PARTF grant would not be eliminated but some would be scaled
down. The Board expressed their appreciation for the hard work the wmmittee has
put into the park project and told Mr. Fields to proceed with their plan to
reduce costs.
IV.    PUBLIC HEARINGS
-None
V.    APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
-The Board unanimously approved the items listed below following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Kelly:
   A.   Minutes:    January 9, 2001 Regular Board Meeting
            January 17, 2001 Special Board Meeting
            January 20, 2001 Special Board Meeting
   B.    Budget Amendments 8, 9, and 10 -Copies are attached
VI.    TOWN MANAGER'S REPORT
-Copies are attached
VII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.    Amendment to the personnel policy -overtime/compensatory time -The
amendment was unanimously approved following a motion made by Commissioner
Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. A copy of the amendment is
attached.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.    ReviewIApprove preliminary site plan for the County Seat Restaurant.
The preliminary site plan was approved following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Walton. A copy is attached.
   B.    Edna Ray Nall Annexation -Resolution Directing the Clerk to
Investigate a Petition Received Under G. S. 160A-58.1. The resolution was
unanimously approved following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. A copy is attached.
   C.    Sheila E. Barber Annexation -Resolution Directing the Clerk to
Investigate a Petition Received Under G. S. 160A-58.1. The resolution was
unanimously approved following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. A copy is attached.
   D.    Request from J. & R. Ventures for the Town to take over the pump
station at Kimberly Park Shopping Center -The Board unanimously approved the
request following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen.
   E.    Tractorrnrailer Par'ng Ordinance-The Board unanimously approved
Ordinance 40.07 following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and seconded
by Commissioner Fields. A copy of the ordinance is attached.
   F.    Award Town Auditor's Contract -The contract was awarded to Sharrard,
McGee & Co. from Asheboro for the following amounts after a motion made by
Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Walton:
      2001      $10,950
      2002      $11,400
      2003      $11,900
A copy of the bids received is attached.
IX.   CO-EE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
-Copies are attached.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
-None
XI.    COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
-None
XII.    CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL MATTERS
-Mayor Pro-tern Stewart made a motion to go into closed session to discuss a
personnel matter.
XIII.   RECONVENE OPEN MEETING
-Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting and announced no action had been
taken.
XIV.    ADJOURNMENT
-There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Caddell declared the meeting adjourned.
                              
Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk    Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
 MARCH 19, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
MARCH 19, 2001
7:00 P.M.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Tom Stewart,
Commissioners Bill Walton, Mike Waschsen, Ronnie Fields and Sam Kelly.
I.   CALL TO ORDER/INVOCATION
– Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order and asked Commissioner Walton to
give the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
– Commissioner Waschsen led in the pledge of allegiance.
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Dan Oates – Mr. Oates lives on Barrett Street across from Town Hall.
Mr. Oates asked the Board to consider having Carolina Power & Light install a
shield on the streetlight at the end of the walkway to prevent light from
spreading into his bedroom. Town Clerk, Carol Cleetwood, had spoken to CP&L and
was told there would be no charge for the shield. The Board directed Mrs.
Cleetwood to contact CP&L and arrange for the shield to be installed.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
– The Board unanimously approved the items listed below following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Kelly:
   A.   Minutes – February 19,2001 Regular Board Meeting
   B.   2000/2001 Transfer of funds
   C.   Edna Ray Nall Annexation – Approve Resolution Fixing Date of Public
Hearing on Question of Annexation Pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2 – April 16,2001
   D.   Sheila E. Barber Annexation - Approve Resolution Fixing Date of Public
Hearing on Question of Annexation Pursuant to G. S. 160A-58.2 – April 16,2001
Copies are attached
V.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT
– Copies are attached
VI.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Update on Carthage Recreational Park – Interim Town Manager Stan
Williams reported the bid opening for the park had been rescheduled for Monday,
April 2, 2001 at 2:00 p.m.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   ALLTELL/American Tower Corporation sublease – This was tabled until a
later meeting
   B.   Economic Development Department – “Partners in Progress” Funding for
the 2001-2002 fiscal year - $6,315. The Board decided to put it in the proposed
2001/2002 budget for discussion.
   C.   Resolution of Dissolution for the Pee Dee Council of Governments – The
resolution was approved following a motion made by Commissioner Walton and
seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. A copy is attached.
VIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
- None
IX.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– None
X.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
– None
XI.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL MATTERS
   A.   Town Manager’s Position – Applications
XII.   RECONVENE OPEN MEETING
- Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting and announced applicants had
been discussed but no action had been taken during the closed session.
A motion was made by Commissioner Stewart, seconded by Commissioner
         Kelly and unanimously approved by the Board to offer the position of
Town Manager to Carol Cleetwood.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Caddell declared the meeting adjourned.
________________________________ _____________________________
Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 2, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING – THE MCDONALD BUILDING
APRIL 2, 2001
4:00 P.M.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Tom Stewart,
Commissioners Bill Walton, Mike Waschsen and Ronnie Fields
Board member absent: Commissioner Sam Kelly
I.   CALL MEETING TO ORDER
– Mayor Caddell called the Special Meeting to order.
II.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Award/reject bids for Carthage Recreational Park – The following bids
were submitted:
      a.   Atlas Resource Management         $923,000
      b.   L-J, Inc.               $976,600
      c.   R&G Construction            $833,637
The Town received a PARTF grant in the amount of $229,486. With the required
matching funds of $229,486, the total budget of the project is $458,972. Since
the low bid was almost double the total project budget, a motion was made by
Mayor Pro-tem Stewart, seconded by Commissioner Walton and unanimously approved
by the Board to reject the bids and advertise for bids again.
   B.   Award/reject bids for the McReynolds Street Sewer Project – the
following bids were submitted:
      a.   Butler Construction Co., Inc.         $37,450
      b.   S. R. Gilliam Construction Co.      $28,100
      c.   Blue Construction Co.            $24,515
       The projected estimate on this project was between $12,000 and $15,000.
      The Director of Public Works, Sammy Taylor, felt the project should be
put on hold for a while since the sewer extension would only serve one house.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Stewart, the Board unanimously approved rejecting all bids.
   C.   Install 8” water line on Hwy. 15/501 from the Pizza Hut to Suggs Street
– The Town has been experiencing problems with water volume from the
intersection at Hardee’s Restaurant out to the prison camp on Priest Hill Road.
Sammy Taylor has spoken with Mark Burnett of Hydrastructure and they have
suggested we install an 8” line that would eventually merge with the present 6”
line. The total cost of this project (including 3 fire hydrants) will be
approximately $18,000. Gene Horne, the developer of the proposed Fuel Mate/
McDonald’s Restaurant/Car Wash at the old Carthage Farm Supply location, has
agreed to pay $9,000 to help offset the Town’s expense. The Board unanimously
approved installing the 8” line following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen.
III.   OLD BUSINESS
– None
IV.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS A PERSONNEL MATTER
V.   RECONVENE OPEN MEETING
– Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting and announced no action had been
taken.
VI.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Caddell declared the meeting adjourned.
________________________________ __________________________________
Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 16, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
APRIL 16, 2001
The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday, April 16,
2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Tommy Stewart,
Commissioners Mike Waschsen and Ronnie Fields.
Board members absent: Commissioners W. C. Walton and Sam Kelly.
I.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order.
II.   INVOCATION
  - Mayor Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
- Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance to
the flag.
IV.   PUBLIC APPERANCES
- None
V.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
   A    Sheila E.   Barber Annexation – Old River Road – No opposition was
voiced.
   B.   Edna Ray Nall Annexation – Old River Road – No opposition was voiced.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
– The board unanimously approved the the items listed below after a motion by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen:
   A    Minutes: March 19, 2001 Regular Board Meeting
            April 2, 2001 Special Board Meeting
   B    Adopt Annexation Ordinance for Sheila E. Barber
   C    Adopt Annexation Ordinance for Edna Ray Nall
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT
– A copy is attached.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A    Stuart Fields – Update on Carthage Recreational Park – Mr. Fields met
with the Recreational Advisory Committee and Glenn Bradley of VZA. Revisions to
the park plans were made with an additional cost of $9,000.00 for the changes.
Advertisement for new bids will be made with bids to be presented to the Town
Board at the May meeting.
   B.   ALLTEL/American Tower Corporation Sublease – The Town Manager reported
that Public Works Director, Sammy Taylor, had stated that with the new Water
Plant we would need either an antenna or dialer for telemetry purposes for
Nick’s Creek and if we should use the antenna, we would need to seek permission
to put it on the tower. The Town Manager asks if this should be requested
before negotiating a higher lease. The Board instructed the Town Manager to
contact the Institute of Government and the NCLM as to our options.
   C.   Brian Tyner and/or Bryan Phillips – Update on fire station – Bryan
Phillips appeared before the Board to report on the progress of the new fire
station. They have met with architect and revised the plans originally drawn to
reduce the size and cost of the building. They are still working with the
possibility of getting other architects involved to make changes and for cost
reduction.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Set date for budget workshop – A tentative date of Tuesday, May 22,
2001 at 8:30 a.m. at the McDonald Building was set.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
– Vernon Kelly of the Planning Board appeared to state that they had made
recommendations to amend the zoning ordinance with reference to the airport
district.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– None
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
– None
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL AND LEGAL MATTERS
– Commissioner Fields made a motion to go into closed session.
XIV.   RECONVENE IN REGULAR SESSION
- Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting announcing the Board did conduct
a closed session during which no action was taken.
XV.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no other business to come before the Town of Carthage Board of
Commissioners at the time, Mayor Pro-tem Stewart declared the meeting
adjourned.
___________________________________    ______________________________
Linda Phillips/Finance Officer-Deputy Clerk      Larry R.   Caddell,Mayor  
MAY 21, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
MAY 21, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday May 21,
2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners
Sam Kelly, W.C. Walton, Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks-Cleetwood, Town Clerk/Zoning
Administrator Melissa A. Carter, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Finance
Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief J.D. Monroe, Planning Board Chairman Tom
Mohan, and Planning Board member Sherwood Lapping.
   Others present were Jeff Bright, Wayne Caddell, and Vernon Kelly.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Kelly gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance. 
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
None.
   Adjustment to the Agenda: Budget Workshop under IX. Item F. was unanimously
approved following a motion by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Proposed Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance: No opposition.
   Public Hearing was closed following a motion by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Kelly.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below after a motion by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Kelly.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting April 16, 2001.
   B.   Adopt Ordinance to Amend the Carthage Zoning Chapter 100 Airport
District.
   C.   Budget Amendments 11, 12, 13.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Appearance Review – Bright Mart- Jeff Bright: Planning Board Chairman
Tom Mohan recommended to the Town Board of Commissioners that the appearance
review of the proposed site plans for car wash/convenience store presented by
Jeff Bright be approved. Mr. Jeff Bright made a presentation to the Board of
Commissioners with a brief question and answer session. Site Plans for Bright
Mart were approved following a motion made by Commissioner Kelly and seconded
by Commissioner Waschsen.
   B.   Award Contract for Recreational Park Project: After considerable
discussion this item was tabled, with a Special Meeting set for May 23, 2001 at
8:00 a.m. at the Town Hall, to award the bid for the Recreational Park Project.
   C.   Fire Rate increase from 5 ½ % to 7%: Discussion, no opposition.
   D.   Maintenance of Fire Trucks: Discussion, no decision made.
   E.   Committee for New Fire Station: After discussion concerning the
formation of a Committee to over see plans for a new Fire Station, the Board
decided to leave things as they were.
Mayor Caddell recessed the meeting for a five-minute break at 8:15 p.m.
CLOSED SESSION: To Discuss Legal Matters G.S.   143-318.11(a)(1)
Mayor Caddell commenced a closed session at 8:20 p.m. to discuss the possible
sale of the Carthage Medical Center.
RECONVENE IN REGULAR SESSION:
Mayor Caddell reconvened the Regular Meeting at 8:45 p.m. announcing the Board
did conduct a closed session during which no action was taken.
   F.   Budget Workshop: Town Manager Carol Cleetwood began by highlighting
some areas of the proposed budget for the Town of Carthage for the fiscal year
2001 – 2002.
After discussion concerning the increasing landfill charges, the Board
unanimously approved increasing the garbage rate from $5.00 a month to $8.00 a
month following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Fields.
   The Board unanimously approved not to continue funding to the chamber of
Commerce Economic Development Contribution, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Walton.
   Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe referred to his request in the budget for a full-
time firefighter. After much discussion, it was decided that a salary survey be
done to compare Fire Department salaries, with a comparison of the Police
Department salaries, as well.
   There was discussion concerning the proposed 3% cost of living increases and
merit increases not to exceed 2%, for an average of 3.16%. Commissioner Fields
stated he was against merit increases, because he feels they promote
favoritism. Mayor Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart, Commissioners Walton and
Kelly stated they were in favor of the merit pay increases.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood continued through other areas of expenditures
as well as revenues.
   Another Budget Workshop was scheduled for Monday June 4, 2001 at 8:30 a.m.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Minutes of the Planning Board are attached, which are and do become part of
these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Walton presented a plaque to the Town from the Pee Dee Council of
Governments.
Commissioner Waschsen commended all the town employees for such wonderful job
and all the hard work they are doing.
Mayor Caddell thanked everyone for all the hard work and dedication during the
Buggy Festival.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Sherwood Lapping announced that the Rotary Club was presenting Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood with the Citizen of the Year Award for her many years of
dedicated service to the Town and it’s citizens. The Rotary Club will be
holding a luncheon for Carol at the McDonald Building on June 7, 2001 at 12:00
p.m. and anyone interested in attending could RSVP to him as soon as possible.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Town of Carthage Board of
Commissioners the meeting adjourned at 9:45 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Kelly and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart.
______________________________ ______________________________
Melissa A.   Carter Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator
MAY 23, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
SPECIAL MEETING –TOWN HALL
MAY 23, 2001
8:00 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Wednesday May
23, 2001 at 8:00 a.m. at the Carthage Town Hall. The purpose of the meeting was
to discuss and award the bid for the proposed Carthage Recreational Park.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, and W.C. Walton. A quorum.
   Commissioner Mike Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks-Cleetwood, Town Clerk/Zoning
Administrator Melissa A. Carter, and Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
   The board unanimously approved to award the bid to Sandhills Building
Systems, adjusted bid amount $479,580.00; subject to a change order deduct, in
order to get the bid amount to project allotment of $417,248.00, following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sam
Kelly.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:15 a.m.
____________________________ ________________________________
Melissa A.   Carter             Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor   
Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator
JUNE 4, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING – MCDONALD BUILDING
JUNE 4, 2001
8:30 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
June 4, 2001 at 8:30 a.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage. The purpose of
this meeting was to discuss the Carthage Recreational Park Project and a Budget
Workshop.
   Board members present were Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners Sam
Kelly and Bill Walton. Members absent were Mayor Larry Caddell, Commissioners
Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. There was not a quorum, so the special
meeting was cancelled. Instead, there was just a general discussion concerning
the Park Project and the 2001-2002 FY Proposed Budget.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Recreation Committee Members Stewart
Fields, and Bill Coles.
______________________________ ________________________________
Melissa A.   Carter             Tommy Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem
Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator
JUNE 7, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
SPECIAL MEETING – TOWN HALL
JUNE 7, 2001
9:00 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday June
7, 2001 at 9:00 a.m. at the Carthage Town Hall. The purpose of the meeting was
to approve increasing the Fire Service Tax from 5.5 cents to 7 cents per
$100.00 of valuation.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners Sam Kelly, Ronnie
Fields, and Bill Walton. A quorum.
   Members absent were Mayor Larry Caddell, and Commissioner Mike Waschsen.
Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, and Town Clerk Melissa
A. Carter.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
   The Board unanimously approved the increase in the Fire Service Tax rate
from 5.5 cents to 7 cents per $100.00 of valuation, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Kelly.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart adjourned the meeting at 9:05.
____________________________ _________________________________
Melissa A.   Carter Tommy Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem
Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator
JUNE 18, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
JUNE 18, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday June
18, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners
MikeWaschsen, Sam Kelly, W.C.   Walton, and Ronnie Fields.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks-Cleetwood, Town Clerk/Zoning
Administrator Melissa A.   Carter, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Water Plant Supervisor Alan Oldham, Fire Chief
J.D.   Monroe, Police Officer Michael Cox, and new town employee Donald Dowdy.
Representing the Carthage Recreation Committee was Stuart Fields. Representing
the Carthage Planning Board was Chairman Tom Mohan, and Vernon Kelly.
   In attendance representing the McDonald’s Corporation was Trevor Hopkins,
and from Fuel Mate Sam Warner. Concerned citizens present were Bobby Plowman,
and his mother Mrs. Plowman. Reporter from the Pilot newspaper John Chappell
was also in attendance.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor introduced new employee Donald Dowdy to
the Carthage Board of Commissioners. Mr. Dowdy was welcomed by all.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Proposed Town of Carthage Budget for FY 2001 - 2002: The only
opposition to the proposed budget, came from Commissioner Waschsen, citing the
removal of the contribution to the Chamber Economic Development Fund.
Commissioner Waschsen remarked that he would like to see the town at least give
the Chamber $1000.00. The general consensus of the rest of the board was, with
the various ongoing projects the town is involved in, and the uncertainty of
State revenue, the funds were not available to give to the Chamber. Mayor
Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:05 p.m.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners adopted the proposed Budget for FY 2001 –
2002, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Stewart. Commissioner Waschsen voted nay. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously Approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Walton and seconded by Commissioner Kelly.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting May 21, 2001.
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting May 23, 2001.
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting June 4, 2001.
   D.   Minutes Special Meeting June 7, 2001.
   E.   Budget Amendments: 14, 15, 16, 17
   F.   Budget Transfers: B, C, D, E.
   G.   Amend fee schedule to increase garbage fee from $5.00 a month to $8.00
a month.
   H.   Amend fee schedule to increase returned check fee from $20.00 to
$25.00.
   I.   Amend Salary Grade to include full time Firefighter position.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Carthage Recreation Committee member Stuart Fields presented an update
concerning the proposed Carthage Recreational Park Project. Mr. Fields reported
that he and Town Manager Carol Cleetwood had met in Raleigh with a
representative of PARTF on Thursday June 14th. He and Carol received much
clarification concerning some of the changes that have been made since the
original plan had been drawn up. Mr. Fields highlighted some of the areas that
will need approval from PARTF, before they can be changed and some of the items
that can be changed, without approval; a list is attached and does become part
of these minutes. Mr. Fields recommended that he and Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood meet with Sandhills Building System to go over the items that will be
changed or deducted. The next step would be to have VZA amend the plans, with
the proposed changes. There will not be any additional cost for this. After
that, the town will deal directly with SBS.
   B.   Water Plant update was tabled until later in the meeting.
   C.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood opened discussion concerning a proposal to
charge a bulk water rate at the water plant. Presently, if an in town customer
purchases water from the water plant, they are charged the in town rate, if an
out of town customer purchases water from the water plant, they are charged the
out of town rate. The proposal is to charge one bulk out of town rate for any
purchases of water from the water plant.
After much discussion, this was tabled due to the uncertainty of administering
the proposal. Carol is to consult with the town attorney.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Appearance review by McDonald’s/Fuel Mate. Trevor Hopkins and Sam
Warner made a presentation to the board on behalf of the McDonald’s/Fuel Mate.
There was a brief question and answer session. The Board of Commissioners
unanimously approved the plans for the McDonald’s/Fuel Mate to be located at
the old Carthage Farm Supply, off of US Hwy 15/501, following a motion made by
Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. McDonald’s/Fuel Mate
will have to apply for a variance to allow for 30’ signage to be placed on the
lot.
   B.   The adoption of the FY 2001-2002 Budget had been completed earlier in
the meeting.
   C.   The Board of Commissioners voted to re-appoint Jean Riley to the
Carthage Planning Board; re-appoint Stuart Fields and Mike Kelly to the
Carthage Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee; and re-appoint Betsy Hamer,
Lee McGraw, Major Killian, and Colin Spencer to the Carthage Historical
Committee, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Fields.
New appointments to the Carthage Historical Committee were Patricia Brown and
Helen Johnson, following a motion made by Commissioner Kelly and seconded by
Commissioner Walton.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Minutes of the Planning Board are attached, which are and do become part of
these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Fire Chief J.D. Monroe spoke concerning the plans for a new fire station. Some
discussion followed. It was decided that J.D.   could research several
possibilities concerning having preliminary plans drawn and get some quotes
from as many architects as possible.
Mr. Bobby Plowman addressed the Board concerning the water bill for a mobile
home he previously owned. Mr. Plowman explained that when a former tenant had
vacated the property last year, he had instructed the town to turn the water
off. Mr. Plowman remarked that he had never asked that the water be turned on
in his name. He received a bill for $1101.24, added to his water account for
Paradise Video. He did not understand why he was responsible for this bill,
when he never had the water turned on in his name. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
explained that he had been told by the former tenant as well as the town that
the mobile home had a terrible leak and he refused to repair it. The board had
instructed her to collect the bill for the water usage/leak from Mr. Plowman by
adding the bill to his water bill at the Paradise Video Store. After much
discussion, Commissioner Fields proposed that Mr. Plowman pay the outstanding
amount of his former tenant, in the amount of $22.48 and the other bill will be
adjusted off his account. Mr. Plowman was in agreement with Commissioner
Fields’ proposal.
Mayor Caddell recessed the regular meeting for a five-minute break at 8:40 p.m.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
To Discuss Legal Matters G.S. 143-318.11(a)(1) Board of Commissioners commenced
a closed session at 8:45 p.m. to discuss a legal matter concerning Yost,
following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner
Fields.
RECONVENE IN REGULAR SESSION:
   Mayor Caddell reconvened the Regular Meeting at 9:35 p.m. announcing the
board did conduct a closed session during which no action was taken. Mayor
Caddell instructed Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor to give a brief update
concerning the construction of the new water plant. Director of Public Works
Sammy Taylor informed the board that there was not a sufficient allowance
allotted for the roof that they wished to order. Hobbs, Upchurch and Associates
had only allowed for a silver tin roof. This brought about discussion
concerning having a contingency fund for the construction of the water plant in
order to facilitate change orders more efficiently. Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart
remarked that contingency was not put into the figures for the construction of
the water plant because there was simply no money available to do so. After
discussion, the board moved to approve funding an extra $6,000.00 contingency,
in order to purchase the desired green tin roof, following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart, and seconded by Commissioner Fields.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   There being no other business to come before the Town of Carthage Board of
Commissioners the meeting adjourned at 10:15 p.m.
____________________________ ____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator
JULY 16, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
JULY 16, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday July
16, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners Sam Kelly, Ronnie
Fields, W.C. Walton, and Mike Waschsen. A quorum.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Town Clerk Melissa A. Carter,
Police Chief Craig Goodnight, Police Lt. Chris McKenzie, and Planning Board
Members Vernon Kelly and Sherwood Lapping.
   Others present were Carol Ashworth, Margaret Dutton, and Trevor Hopkins.
ADJUSTMENT/ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA: Consent Agenda; Appointment of Fire Chief,
Other Business; Floyd Frye use of the McDonald Building every Friday night for
one year for $1,000.00.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Kelly gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mr. Archie Kelly was scheduled to appear, but was not present, as he was out of
town. Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart asked Town Manager Carol Cleetwood to update the
board concerning this matter. Mr. Archie Kelly has several pieces of equipment
for sale, not related to his business, sitting on the empty lot at the old
Piggly Wiggly location. Town Manager Cleetwood reported that she had inquired
with Mr. Richard Ducker at the Institute of Government concerning the sale of
these items on the empty lot. Mr. Ducker reported that if Mr. Kelly had a
vehicle (delivery truck or fork lift) that he used in his office furniture
business, then he could possibly park it on the adjacent property and advertise
it for sale. If other vehicles are parked on the lot, sold and a profit made,
then it constitutes a “business” that is not allowed in the Central Business
District. After some discussion, the board directed Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood to send Mr. Kelly written notice by certified mail that he is in
violation of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Carthage, the nature of the
violation and citation of the section of the Ordinance violated; the measures
necessary to remedy the violation; the time period for which the violation must
be corrected; and the appeal process, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Walton. Motion carried.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Public Hearing began at 7:15 p.m.
Town Clerk Melissa A. Carter swore in Carol Ashworth and Trevor Hopkins.
   A.   Carol Ashworth had requested a Conditional Use Permit to place a mobile
home on 2.88 acres located at 3229 US Hwy 15-501 in Carthage. The property is
zoned RA40 and mobile homes are listed as conditional uses. Ms. Ashworth
informed the board the property is owned by her son Stanley R. Faircloth. Carol
Ashworth made her presentation to the board, requesting that she be allowed to
place a mobile home on her son’s property. The Conditional Use Permit for Carol
Ashworth to place either a single or double wide mobile home on her son’s
property located at 3229 US Hwy 15-501 was approved following a motion made by
Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. Motion carried.
   B.   Request for a variance by McDonald’s/Fuel Mate for their freestanding
sign height in the Thoroughfare Business District to be changed from 25’ to
30’. Trevor Hopkins made his presentation to the board on behalf of the
McDonald’s corporation and Fuel Mate. Mr. Hopkins remarked that the higher sign
would give them a little more recognition along the 15-501 corridor. It was
noted that some of the existing signs in the area were higher than the 25’
limit, however, those were existing before the present zoning was adopted. Mr.
Vernon Kelly was present and spoke concerning the recommendation of the
Planning Board. Mr. Kelly indicated the Planning Board was not in favor of
granting the Variance, however, they did recommend amending the maximum sign
height from 25’ to 30’ along the 15-501 corridor only. Discussion followed. No
action was taken concerning this matter.
Public Hearing was closed at 7:25 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting June 18, 2001.
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting July 3, 2001.
   C.   Amendments to the 1997 Municipal Records Retention and Disposition
Schedule – Budget and Fiscal Records – Police Department Records.
   D.   Budget Amendments 18, 19.
   E.   Appointment of Fire Chief J.D. Monroe July 1, 2001 – June 30, 2002.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Conditional Use permit for Carol Ashworth had been handled earlier.
   B.   Request for Variance by McDonald’s/Fuel Mate had been handled earlier.
   C.   Award contract for demolition of 6 structures Needmore Phase II sewer
improvements. The board approved the bid from R&W Demolition in the amount of
$20,000.00 for demolition of six structures, following a motion made by
Commissioner Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. Motion carried.
   D.   Award contract for rehabilitation of the bathroom located at Unit #19,
296 Kester Rd. After discussion, this was tabled until further detail
concerning this matter could be obtained.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS and BUSINESS:
Minutes of the Regular Planning Board Meeting July 5, 2001 are attached, which
are and do become part of these minutes. Minutes of the Historical Committee
meeting July 10, 2001, are attached, which are and do become part of these
minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
The board considered the request from Floyd Frye to use the McDonald Building
every Friday for one year for approximately 3 hours for a fee of $1000.00. It
was noted that the Carthage Rotary Club pays $500.00 a year to use the McDonald
Building for approximately 1½ hours on Thursdays. The Weight Watchers Club uses
the McDonald Building every Thursday night for approximately 2 to 3 hours and
pays $1,300.00 per year. After discussion, Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart suggested a
study be done, concerning the costs to maintain the McDonald Building,
electric, phone, etc., before a decision can be made concerning this matter.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
To Discuss Legal Matters G.S. 143-318.11 (a)(1) The Carthage Board of
Commissioners commenced a closed session at 8:00 p.m. to discuss a legal matter
following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly. Motion carried.
RECONVENE IN REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart reconvened the Regular
Meeting at 8:15 p.m., announcing that the board did conduct a closed session,
during which no action was taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Town of Carthage Board of
Commissioners the meeting adjourned at 8:20 p.m.
__________________________ ______________________________
Melissa A. Carter Tommy Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem
Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator
July 27, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETING
   Notice is hereby given that a Special Meeting will be held by the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Carthage at the McDonald Building on the 30th day
of July at 8:00 a.m. in Carthage, for the purpose of:
      1.   Carthage Recreational Park Project – Construction Contract
      2.   N.C.   league of Municipalities in Ashville October 14, 15, 16, 2001
      3.   Discussion of Real Estate
The public is invited to be present for these important meetings.
            Melissa A.   Carter
            Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator
AUGUST 20, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
AUGUST 20, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday August
20, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen, and W.C. Walton. A full board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk/Zoning
Administrator Melissa A. Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of
Public Works Sammy Taylor, and Police Chief Craig Goodnight.
   Others present were the Reverend David Coffey, Jr., and Sherwood Lapping.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart introduced Rev. David Coffey, Jr. The Rev. Coffey, Jr.
gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting July 16, 2001.
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting July 30, 2001.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Needmore Phase II Sewer Improvement grant – rehabilitation to add
bathroom facility. There was some discussion concerning the State requiring
this to be included in the grant. It was submitted in the original grant
application and Town Manager Cleetwood reported we may be asked to give the
grant money back to the State, if this is not approved. There was also
discussion concerning trading the water/sewer tap fee in return for the
easement that has to be secured. After discussion, the bid was awarded to
Rollin Raymes in the amount of $5000.00 for rehabilitation to add a bathroom
facility to Unit 19, located at 296 Kester Road, with the stipulation we
receive the easement and a request for voluntary annexation before any work has
begun, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Walton. 4 ayes. 1 nay. Motion carried. Commissioner Fields voted
nay.
   B.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood gave an update on the Needmore Phase II
Sewer Improvement Grant, copy attached, which is and does become part of these
minutes.
   C.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood began discussion concerning the
negotiation with Alltel/American Tower sublease. After much discussion, it was
decided to counter offer a lease fee of $1000.00 per month, plus a one time
payment of $15,000.00, and give us permission to install the antenna for the
new water plant on their tower. Furthermore, the board authorized the Town
Manager or Town Clerk to negotiate the best possible deal.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
Town Manager opened discussion concerning a proposed amendment to Chapter 50 of
the Town Ordinances; 50.58 Responsibility for Payment. The proposed change
would make the property owner of rental property, responsible for payment of
any unpaid water/sewer bills that the renter may have incurred, but not paid.
There was great discussion concerning the legality of such a change to the
ordinance. After lengthy discussion, the board directed the Town Clerk to do a
survey with other municipalities, concerning the water policy. This matter was
tabled until the next regular meeting, when the Town Clerk Melissa Carter could
present the survey, following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in August. Minutes of the Historical
Committee meeting August 9, 2001, are attached, which are and do become part of
these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper presented Mayor Caddell with a print of
a cartoon, printed earlier in the summer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
To Discuss Personnel G.S. 143-318.11 (a)(1) The Carthage Board of Commissioners
commenced a closed session at 8:30 p.m. to discuss personnel, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All
ayes. Motion carried.
RECONVENE IN REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at
8:54 p.m., announcing that the board did conduct a closed session, during which
no action was taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Town of Carthage Board of
Commissioners, the meeting adjourned at 8:55 p.m.
____________________________ _____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk    Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday
September 17, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners
Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen, Ronnie Fields, and W.C. Walton. A full board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Fire Chief J.D. Monroe, Police Chief Craig Goodnight, and Police Lt. Chris
McKenzie.
   Others present were Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan, Planning Board
Members Vernon Kelly and Sherwood Lapping, Chamber Members Bill Scott, Jeff
Furr, and Archie Kelly. Pilot Reporter John Chappell was also in attendance.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Kelly gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mr. Bill Scott spoke to the board concerning membership and ongoing projects
the Chamber has been involved with. Mr. Scott referred to the storefront
improvement project as well as the economic development project. Mr. Scott
passed out a flyer and a booklet on Carthage. The board thanked Mr. Scott and
praised the work done on the booklet.
Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe announced that the Fire Department had raised
$3,500.00 today for the “Fill the Boot” benefit for Firefighters in New York
City.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting August 20, 2001.
   B.   Proclamation for the month of October to be “Relay for Life” Month.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The Board of Commissioners voted unanimously to adopt a Resolution for
Approving Local Water Supply Plans, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The Board decided to change the October meeting date from October 15 to
October 22, 2001 due to the NCLM Conference in Ashville.
   C.   The Board voted to appoint Commissioner Waschsen as the voting delegate
at the NCLM Conference in Ashville October 14-16, 2001, and Commissioner Walton
as the alternate, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded
by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in September. Copy of the Carthage
Historical Committee is attached, which is and does become part of these
minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Planning Board Member Sherwood Lapping commended the businesses here in
Carthage for the Patriotic display of the American flags this past week.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL, REAL ESTATE, AND LEGAL MATTERS
G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 7:30 p.m. to
discuss personnel, real estate and legal matters following a motion made
Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
RECONVENE IN REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at
10:00 p.m. announcing there had been action taken. The following action was
taken; The Board approved the payment of $3,500.00 from Richard Yost, following
a motion made by Commissioner Kelly and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All
ayes. Motion carried. The Board approved making a counter offer of $550,000.00
for the purchase of the Klaussner Building, in order to make it a municipal
building to house the Police Department, Fire Department, Public Works, and
Administration, following a motion made by Commissioner Walton and seconded by
Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners, the meeting adjourned at 10:02 p.m.
___________________________ ____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 22, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
OCTOBER 22, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday October
22, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, W.C. Walton, Mike Waschsen, and Sam Kelly. A full board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Police Chief Craig Goodnight,
Police Lt. Chris McKenzie, Town Clerk Melissa Carter, and Firefighters Brian
Tyner, and Brian Phillips.
   Others present were Planning Board members Vernon Kelly, and Sherwood
Lapping, Mark Barnett from Hydrostructures, Nancy Carter, J.   Allen Jordan
from National Development Corporation, and John Chappell from the Pilot.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.
II.    INVOCATION:
Commissioner Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
There were none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Caddell called the Public Hearing to Order
      at 7:05 p.m. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood presented an overview of the
request for a variance from Biltmore Developers for the Advance Auto store.
Biltmore Developers was requesting a variance for the side set back
requirements to be lowered, in order to facilitate the parking spaces required
by the town. The property in question is zoned Thoroughfare Business. There was
some discussion concerning reducing the number of parking spaces, instead of
granting the variance. Planning Board member Vernon Kelly was in favor of
reducing the parking requirements. However, Vernon Kelly reported that the
Planning Board had voted to recommend to the Board of Commissioners, that the
variance be granted.
   J.   Allen Jordan, representing Advance Auto spoke concerning the building
and parking requirements. Mr. Jordan informed the board that Advance Auto
requires thirty-five spaces, which is only four less than the number than the
town requires. Additionally, they have changed the format of the building to
accommodate the lot size. The building they are proposing is their second
choice of building style, but they had to go with it in order to make use of
the lot. Furthermore, the layout of the building and parking lot accommodates
the loading dock in the rear of the building, for the delivery truck.
Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:20 p.m.
RECONVENE REGULAR MEETING: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 7:20
p.m. The board voted to grant the variance to Biltmore Developers, for Advance
Auto, to reduce the set back requirements to ten feet on one side of the
building, in order to accommodate all the required parking spaces, following a
motion made by Commissioner Walton, and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. Four
ayes, one nay. Commissioner Fields voted nay. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Kelly and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes.
   Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting September 17, 2001.
   B.   Budget Amendments # 1 – 2.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS: 
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood began discussion concerning the Alltel Sub-lease
to American Towers. The Board of Commissioners had decided to accept Alltel’s
offer of a one-time payment of $15,000.00 and permission to co-locate our
telemetry antenna for the new water plant on their tower. American Tower does
not want us to collect rent from co-locators they might put on the tower. As a
result, Alltel has increased their offer of a one-time payment of $30,000.00.
   This lease is up for renewal in two years and we can re-negotiate this
offer.
   After some discussion, it was decided that Town Manager Carol Cleetwood,
obtain written verification from the Town Attorney Doug Gill, that the lease is
up in two years, and the portion in the contract that pertains to item c)
lessor consents to the assignment of the lease agreement to American Tower in
the event American Tower exercises its option to purchase the tower (the option
is not exercisable until the year 2016), has nothing to do with the town and
will not affect the ability to re-negotiate the contract in two years.
   Mayor Caddell recessed the meeting for a ten-minute break at 8:30 p.m.
   RECONVENE REGULAR MEETING: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at
8:40 p.m.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Mark Barnett from Hydrostructures presented a preliminary plan for the
renovations at the Klaussner building for the new municipal building. Mark
Barnett went over the plans in detail for each department. A copy of the cost
estimates, which are approximately $120,150.00 for the renovations, is
attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. After reviewing the
plans the board unanimously approved the preliminary plans for the renovations,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board approved the Resolution for Bank of Davie signatures for the
perpetual care of the cemetery CD., following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood opened discussion concerning installing
two lockable latch covers on two of the water tanks. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood, reported that she and Public Works Director Sammy Taylor, and Alan
Oldham had recently met with Scotty Wilkins of Utility Service Company. This
company sells water tanks and service maintenance contracts. He did a free
inspection of our water tanks, and recommended several repairs that should be
done, or possibly the tanks be replaced. The town has a maintenance contract
with Leary Construction Company. Town Manager Cleetwood informed the board she
had contacted Leary Construction Company and spoke to Mr. Bill Reimann. He will
be sending a crew within 30 to 45 days to completely inspect the tanks, drain
and power wash the tanks, at no charge, and do any necessary repairs. The board
voted to purchase the two lockable hatches, for $1,850.00 each, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All
ayes. Motion carried.
X.    COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
Copies of the Carthage Planning Board Meeting October 4, 2001; Carthage
Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting September 18, 2001; and the Carthage
Historical Committee Meeting October 9, 2001, are attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS 143-318-11 (a) (1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 9:20 p.m. to
discuss legal matters following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and
seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
RECONVENE REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 9:25
p.m. announcing there had been action taken. The following action was taken;
The Board approved extending the deferred payment for the note for $50,000.00
for Little River golf, Inc., with the present agreement of paying only interest
payments on the note, for the next three years, following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Carthage Town Board of
Commissioners, the meeting adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
___________________________ ____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 19, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
NOVEMBER 19, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday
November 19, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart, Commissioners
Sam Kelly, Ronnie Fields, and W.C.   Walton. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Police Lt. Chris McKenzie, Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan, Planning Board
member Vernon Kelly, and newly elected Commissioner Sherwood Lapping.
   Bill Lester and Sharon McDuffie were present form Hobbs, Upchurch &
Associates, Starla Hughes, CPA from Sharrard, McGee & Co., also John Chappell
from the Pilot.
   Concerned citizens present were Ron and Loretta Moore.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.
II.   INNVOCATION:
Commissioner W.C. Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Starla C. Hughes, CPA from Sharrard, McGee & Co. gave the presentation of the
2000 – 2001 FY Audit. Ms. Hughes went over the highlights of the audit. The
over all consensus was a very favorable report. The Town of Carthage is in very
good financial shape. The audit did report two items that are presently being
corrected, a policy for allowance for doubtful accounts, and software program
to age the accounts.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   The purpose of the Public Hearing is so that the Town of Carthage may
secure a loan from Rural Development, USDA, in order to obtain sufficient funds
for the purchase and renovations of the Klaussner Building. Mayor Caddell
called the Public Hearing to order at 7:05 p.m. Mayor Caddell gave a brief
overview of the plans to house the Public Works Dept., Fire Dept., Police
Dept., and Administration Dept. at the Klaussner Building. Mayor Caddell closed
the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m.
   B.   Public Hearing for FY 2000 CDBG Infrastructure for the purpose of
soliciting public participation in the proposed filing of an amendment to the
FY 2000 CDBG Infrastructure grant project. Mayor Caddell called the Public
Hearing to order at 7:10 p.m. Sharon McDuffie briefly explained that because
Part II of the Needmore Phase II CDBG Sewer Grant was not in the original grant
application, the town must hold a public hearing, before an approval may be
obtained. Ms. McDuffie went over the plans for Part II of the Needmore Phase II
CDBG Sewer Grant. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:15 p.m.
   The board awarded the bid for Part I – Needmore Phase II CDBG Sewer Grant to
Sandhills Grading & Pipe in the amount of $341, 455.62, following a motion made
by Commissioner Walton and seconded by Commissioner Kelly.
   The board awarded the bid for Part II – of the Needmore Phase II CDBG Sewer
Grant to Sandhills Grading & Pipe in the amount of $196,667.99, contingent upon
approval of the amendment for additional water & sewer lines being added to the
original grant application, following a motion made by Commissioner Kelly and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board unanimously approved the item listed below, following a motion
made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting October 22, 2001.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
The board unanimously approved to renew the bank contract with Fidelity Bank as
Central Depository, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. The only change in the contract is the minimum
balance requirement has been increased from $15,000, to $60,000. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Mayor Caddell recessed the meeting for a five-minute break at 7:55 p.m.
RECONVENE REGULAR MEETING: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 8:00
p.m.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copies of the Carthage Planning Board Meeting November 1, 2001; and Carthage
Recreational Advisory Committee Meeting November 13, 2001, are attached, which
are and do become part of these minutes.
Mayor Caddell asked that the Planning Board be prepared to make a
recommendation to fill the vacancy in December of newly elected Commissioner
Sherwood Lapping.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS / PERSONNELL G.S. 143-318.11
(a) (1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 8:00 p.m. to
discuss legal and personnel matters, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
RECONVENE REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 8:28
p.m., announcing there had been no action taken.
Mayor Caddell commended Mayor Pro-Tem Stewart for his many years of dedicated
service to the town and citizens. Mayor Pro-tem Stewart commented that he is
very proud of the town and the accomplishments that have been achieved during
his tenure.
   The board instructed Town Manager Carol Cleetwood to solicit several more
quotes for the fence at the new water plant.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners, the meeting adjourned at 8:30 p.m.
___________________________ ___________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
DECEMBER 17, 2001
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
DECEMBER 17, 2001
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday
December 17, 2001 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Bill Walton, Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen, and newly
elected Commissioner Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Police Chief Craig Goodnight, Police Lt.
Chris McKenzie, Police Officer Bart Davis, Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan,
Planning Board member Vernon Kelly, Fire Chief J.D. Monroe, Fireman Brian
Tyner, and Fireman Brian Phillips.
   Distinguished guests were Clerk of Superior Court Catherine Graham, Director
of Moore County Board of Elections Glenda Clendenin, and Jim McCaskill from the
United States Department of Agriculture.
   Concerned citizens present were Mrs. Sherwood Lapping, Ron Moore, Daniel
Oates, John Cleetwood, Milton T. Dowdy, and John Chappell from the Pilot.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
II.   INNVOCATION:
Commissioner Kelly gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS:
Clerk of Superior Court Catherine Graham gave the administration of Oaths of
Office for Commissioner of the Town of Carthage to Commissioner W.C. (Bill)
Walton, Sherwood Lapping, and Michael (Mike) Waschsen.
Following the administration of Oaths, Police Chief Craig
   Goodnight presented former Mayor Pro-Tem Tommy Stewart with a plaque from
the Police Department. Chief Goodnight commended Tommy for his many years of
service to the town, and invaluable help to the Police Department through those
years. Chief Goodnight asked that it be officially recorded in the minutes that
Tommy Stewart was made an Honorary Police Officer for the Town of Carthage.
   Mayor Larry Caddell presented Tommy Stewart with a plaque, honoring his
years of dedicated service to the town and it’s citizens. Tommy Stewart
remarked he was very thankful to have had the opportunity to serve the town,
and to have helped make it the wonderful place it is today.
RECESS REGULAR MEETING FOR REFRESHMENTS.
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
There were none.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VII.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the item listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Walton, and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. motion
carried.
   A.   Regular Meeting November 19, 2001.
   B.   Addition of X. Old Business item B. – Moore County Transportation Plan.
   C.   Regular Meeting to be held Monday January 19, 2001 changed to Monday
January 28, 2001, due to Martin Luther King Holiday.
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS: 
   A.   The Board of Commissioners unanimously elected Commissioner Bill Walton
as Mayor Pro-Tem, following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded
by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Commissioner Lapping was added as a authorized check signer for the
town checking account, on recommendation from Mayor Caddell.
   C.   Glenda Clendenin from the Moore County Board of Elections made a
presentation to the board concerning new state regulations for registered
voters. Boards of Election must identify all street ranges within every
municipality and all postal zip codes that apply to that range. Carthage has
several inconsistencies in the spelling of street names as well as
discrepancies in house numbers. The Board of Elections is contracting with
Hobbs Upchurch & Associates to assist in updating this information, so that it
will reflect accurate information. Each municipality will be asked to
participate in a pro-rated fee to help offset the cost of the project.
Furthermore, the Board of Elections is asking for the full cooperation of the
town in correcting any errors and supplying accurate information.
After a brief question and answer period, the board voted to approve the
funding of $100.00 to the Moore County Board of Elections for its share of the
fee, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Jim McCaskill from the USDA presented to the board a Letter of
Conditions, an Installment/Purchase Contract, Operating Budget, and other
application documents that needed to be signed by the Mayor in order to proceed
with the loan and grant application with the USDA.
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
   The Board of Commissioners approved acceptance of the Letter of Conditions,
Installment/Purchase Contract, Operating Budget, and other application
documents, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The Board of Commissioners elected to use the Upset Bid procedure, for
the sale of the Fire Station, subject to Town Attorney Doug Gill verifying that
the Town may set a minimum price and reject any or all bids, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   F.   Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan, on behalf of the Planning Board,
recommended that Ron Mohr be appointed to the Planning Board, to fill the seat
vacated by Commissioner Lapping. The board unanimously appointed Ron Mohr to
the Carthage Planning Board, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping.
   G.   X. OLD BUSINESS: Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe spoke concerning fire truck
repairs and general maintenance. He requested that the board allow him to
contract out the routine maintenance and small repairs, instead of having the
town mechanic do the work. He felt the $5000.00 for the town mechanic’s salary
that was budgeted from the Fire Department budget was excessive. The Board of
Commissioners decided it was best to discuss any personnel matters in closed
session. J.D.   also spoke concerning the proposed doors at the fire station.
He asked that the board investigate installing three 16’ x 14’ doors instead of
the two 26’ doors that are in the renovation plans. It was decided the board
could do further research to determine if this would be feasible.
   The board approved funding for the Moore County - Countywide Transportation
Plan, $500.00 payment this budget year and a commitment to pay $500.00 next
budget year, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copies of the Carthage Planning Board Meeting December 6, 2001, are attached,
which are and do become part of these minutes.
XII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton commended all the town employees for the hard work on the
Christmas Parade and the decorations around town. Commissioner Lapping spoke
concerning improving relations with Moore County. Mayor Larry Caddell spoke
concerning the letter to the editor concerning the trees that were cut at the
park. Mayor Caddell wanted to clarify that any oak trees that were cut down
were dying and diseased, or already dead. The only other trees that were cut
down were blackjacks. Mayor Caddell reported that he and his wife were donating
new trees to replace the oaks that had to be cut.
XIII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Milton T. Dowdy spoke concerning code enforcement in the town. He would like to
see the town become more strict on the ordinances regulating the clean up of
property, street maintenance and garbage. The board directed Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood to investigate this matter, and possibly come up with a plan to
better enforce these ordinances.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS / PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 8:45 p.m. to
discuss legal and personnel matters.
RECONVENE REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 9:35
p.m. announcing there had been the following action taken; the board approved a
Resolution to issue a Promissory Note to Klaussner. The board unanimously
approved passing a Resolution to issue a Promissory Note to Klaussner,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
XV.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners, the meeting adjourned at 9:36 p.m.
__________________________ ____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
2002 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 28, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
JANUARY 28, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday January
28, 2002 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly and Mike Waschsen. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Police Chief Craig Goodnight, Police Lt. Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief
J.D.   Monroe, Water Plant Superintendent Alan Oldham, Street Superintendent
Robbie Baker, Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan, and Planning Board Member
Vernon Kelly.
   Concerned citizens present were Gilliam McConnell and from the Pilot
Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in the reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
There were none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARINGS:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the item listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting December 17, 2001.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Water
Superintendent Alan Oldham gave an update on the present situation concerning
the turbidity level in the town pond water. He reported that the turbidity
level had dropped slightly, and hopefully would continue to drop over the
course of the next few days. Furthermore, he reported that they would start
pumping water back into the pond over the next few days. It was noted that the
town needed to send letters of appreciation to Moore County Emergency
Management, the Town of Southern Pines, and the City of Fayetteville, for all
their assistance concerning this matter.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The Board of Commissioners set a budget retreat for Tuesday February
19, 2002 beginning at 8:30 a.m.
   B.   The board approved the transition of town auditors from Sharrard, McGee
& Co., P.A. to Cherry, Bekaert & Holland for the remainder of the contract,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
Water Superintendent Alan Oldham presented an update concerning the status of
the new water plant. He reported that the completion date looked like it could
be between thirty to sixty days, provided the weather remained favorable, and
they didn’t run into any unforeseen obstacles. There was a brief discussion
concerning the fencing for the new water plant and around the pond.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copy of the Carthage Historical Committee Meeting on January 15, 2002 is
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Caddell reported that Tim Lee had donated a 1988 Jaguar for the town to
sell raffle tickets, in order to raise funds to benefit the new park. Raffle
tickets will be sold for $20 a piece, for the chance to win the Jaguar. Mayor
Caddell informed the board that the park looks wonderful, the sod has been put
down, and Red Sunset Maple trees will be planted to replace the dead trees that
were removed. The trees have been donated to the park from the Mayor and his
wife. Mayor Caddell went on the report that the dedication of the new park will
be on Saturday May 11, 2002, at 4:30 p.m. during the Buggy Festival.
Commissioner Lapping referred to a newspaper article in the Monday January 28th
edition, concerning the Town of Robbins Mayor Mickey Browns’ remark that he
wanted the Town of Robbins to be more like Carthage. Commissioner Lapping
remarked this was a compliment for the town.
Commissioner Waschsen reported the Fire Department was sponsoring benefit
spaghetti dinner for Bill Coles, a member of the Carthage Parks and
Recreational Advisory Committee.
Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe remarked that the town should send a letter of
appreciation to the Aberdeen Fire Department for all their assistance with the
gas spill at the Kubbard.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-138.11 (a) (1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 7:45 p.m. to
discuss legal matters, following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
RECONVENE REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 7:
59, announcing there had been no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no other business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners, The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
_______________________ _____________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 18, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
FEBRUARY 18, 2002
The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday, February
18, 2002 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Bill Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen and Sherwood Lapping.
Town of Carthage employees and committee members present were Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie,
Police Lieutenant Bart Davis, Police Detective Bill Morley, Patrol Officers,
Michael Cox, Robert Caulk, Ken Copley and Rick Bickel. Firemen Brian Tyner and
Bryan Monroe. Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan, Planning Board members Vernon
Kelly and Max Muse.
Guests attending were Clerk of Court Catherine Graham, Pinehurst Police Chief
Ernest Hooker, Moore County Sheriff’s Department Chief Deputy Lane Carter and
Captain Greg Maness. ABC Board Chief Tommy Cox and City of Greensboro Canine
Officer Brett Davis. John Chappell of The Pilot. Citizens Loretta Mohr, Ron
Mohr, Don Davis, Judy Davis, Lisa Patterson, Cliff Patterson, Lanae Davis,
Tyler Davis, Anna Davis, Lauren Von Canon, Lori Von Canon, John K.   Von Canon,
Rev. Tom Herndon, Linda Cox,
Tommy McKenzie, Worthy McKenzie, former Chief of Police, Craig Goodnight, Amy
Goodnight, Susan Phillips, Robin Briggs, Allison McKenzie and Avery McKenzie.
I.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order.
II.   INVOCATION
  - Rev. Tom Herndon gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
- Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance to the
flag.
IV.   ADMINISTRATION OF OATH
– Clerk of Superior Court Catherine Graham gave the administration of Oath of
Office for Chief of Police of the Town of Carthage to Christopher
T.   McKenzie.
Following the Oath of Office, Chief McKenzie presented new Police Lieutenant
Bart Davis and pinned his new badge. Former Police Chief, Craig Goodnight then
pinned new Chief McKenzie with his chief’s badge.
Chief McKenzie then requested that former Chief Goodnight stay up front and
that all the police officers come up front with him and they presented Chief
Goodnight with a plaque recognizing him for his eight years of service to the
citizens and Town of Carthage.
RECESS REGULAR MEETING FOR REFRESHMENTS
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES
- None
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
- None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
– The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen.
   A.   Minutes of Regular Meeting January 28, 2002.
   B.   Budget Ordinance Amendment.
IV.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT
– A copy is attached.
   Commissioner Lapping commented on Item #1 giving praise to the Town
employees with a special thanks to J. D. Monroe for all his assistance during
the turbidity level problem with the Town’s water.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Resolution Supporting the Present System of the ABC Boards – ABC board
member, Sammy Riddle and Secretary to the board, Pamela Smith explained the
importance of keeping the ABC system as it is versus privatization. The
resolution to keep the present system as it is was passed unanimously after a
motion by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping.
   B.   United States Cellular Tower at Riley Paving – Colleen Sheppard was
present to request that a communications tower be installed on property owned
by J. L. Riley and adjacent to Riley Paving. This request was tabled for thirty
days after a motion by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping
to allow time for the Board to review Moore County’s cellular tower guidelines.
X.   OLD BUSINESS
   Willie McAllister appeared before the board to request that the Town
continue routine maintenance on Millbrook Street until the funds are available
to move water lines, grade and complete the loop on Millbrook as previously
requested. The board agreed to grade Millbrook once a month until the new
budget year which at that time consideration will be made as to funds available
to complete this project.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
– Copies of the minutes for The Planning Board, Parks & Recreation Advisory
Committee and Historical Committee meetings for February 2002 are attached.
XII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– Commisioner Waschsen reported on the success of the Carthage Fire Departments
February 8, 2002 fund raiser to benefit Bill Coles.
XIII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
– None
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSSLEGALMATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (1)
– There were no matters to discuss in closed
session.                                                                           
XV.   ADJOURNMENT
– There being no further business to come before the Town of Carthage Board of
Commissioners, the meeting was adjourned.
___________________________________      ____________________________
Linda Phillips, Finance Officer/Deputy Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 19, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS BUDGET RETREAT
FEBRUARY 19, 2002
The Carthage Board of Commissioners met for their annual budget retreat on
Tuesday, February 19, 2002 at 8:30 a.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem, Bill Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen and Sherwood Lapping.
Town of Carthage employees and committee members present were Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood, Public Works Director Sammy Taylor, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Water Plant Supervisor Alan Oldham,
Fire Chief J. D. Monroe, Assistant Fire Chief Bryan Phillips, Historical
Committee members Jean Prickett and Helen Mohan.
Others present were Mark Barnett and Mike Koonce from Hydrostructures and Joyce
Rhodes of Sandhills Community College.
A schedule of the retreat is attached.
Part III, Finance, section F. Possible additional revenues, section A, a motion
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Walton was unanimously
passed to allow Sandhills Community College to construct a 3000 sq. ft.
classroom in the new municipal building and a burn building and training tower
on Town of Carthage property adjacent to the municipal building.
Part VII, Special Events/Recreation, the opening of the new water plant and new
park with a plague to recognize individuals instrumental in the construction of
these two new projects, Commissoner Walton made the motion to include former
Mayor pro-tem Tommy Stewart’s name on these plaques which was seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen and was carried by an unanimous vote.
______________________________________   _____________________________   
Linda Phillips, Finance Officer/Deputy Clerk   Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
MARCH 4, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING - MCDONALD BUILDING
MARCH 4, 2002
4:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
March 4, 2002 at 4:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage. The purpose of
this meeting was to discuss personnel and Fire Department issues.
   Board members present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.   Walton,
Commissioners Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum.
Commissioner Ronnie Fields arrived at 4:07 p.m.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
A. Carter, Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe, Assistant Fire Chief Brian Phillips, and
Firefighter Brian Tyner.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 4:04 p.m.
   Mayor Caddell explained why the meeting had been called, to clarify a few
issues concerning the Fire Department. Mayor Caddell explained that when the
town first began considering purchasing the Klaussner building for a municipal
building that the idea behind it was to have a building to house the Police
Department, Public Works, Administration, and Fire Department. There was never
to be any segregation concerning the building. All departments are considered
to be under the town’s umbrella. Mayor Caddell went on to explain about the
Fire Service District tax that is received from the County. The county
contracts with the town for fire protection in the fire district. The County
imposes and collects the fire district taxes and forwards the monies to the
town. As long as the town provides the contracted fire protection, it is under
no obligation to spend the collected money on any one particular thing, or that
they demonstrate that the cost for providing the fire protection is equal to
the amount received. This is why the money goes into the general fund. There
was much discussion.
   Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe stated he would like to publicly apologize to Linda
Phillips, Finance Officer for the town, if any thing that he or Brian Tyner had
done or said upset her. Fire Chief Monroe went on to state that he would like
to have some sort of contingency fund, left over from the budget, so that they
could save money in order to purchase fire trucks and equipment.
   Mayor Caddell remarked that if they did that for the fire department, then
they would have to do that for other departments of the town, and that they did
not wish to do that. The money goes into the general fund, then if there are
warranted expenses or needs, the board may choose to spend it as it sees fit,
for any department, including the fire department. It is not their intention to
segregate funds for any particular department. Furthermore, Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood is researching the possibility of getting a grant and/or a low
interest loan, to help with the purchase of a new fire truck this next budget
year.
   Much discussion ensued between Fire Chief Monroe and Mayor Caddell.
   Fire Chief Monroe invited Mayor Caddell to attend a meeting at the fire
station on Thursday night March 8, 2002, so that he could answer any questions
that the firefighters might have concerning these issues. Mayor Caddell
accepted the invitation.
   There was some discussion concerning Mayor Caddell possibly meeting with the
Fire District Board to go over some of these issues.
   Mayor Caddell emphasized how the Council/Manager form of Government works.
If, in the future the fire department has budgetary requests, or concerns, they
need to bring the issue before the Town Manager before going to the Finance
Officer.
   The board passed a motion to unanimously endorse the views expressed by
Mayor Caddell, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. Motion carried.
   Meeting adjourned following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Kelly. Meeting adjourned at 4:55 p.m.
________________________ ____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk        Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
MARCH 18, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
MARCH 18, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday March
18, 2002 at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, and Sam Kelly. A quorum. Commissioners Sherwood
Lapping and Mike Waschsen were absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Water Superintendent Alan Oldham, Water Plant Operator Frank Muse, Water Plant
Operator John Whitlock & his wife Joy Whitlock, Police Chief Chris McKenzie,
Fire Fighter Brian Tyner, Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan, and Planning Board
Member Ron Mohr.
    Also present from USDA Alan Hart, from United States Cellular Colleen
Shephard, and from the Pilot newspaper John Chappell.
   Concerned citizens present were Rolland Gilliam, Barbara Kelly, Harold & Kay
Mooney.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:10 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Kelly gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in the reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mayor Caddell asked Water Plant Operator John Whitlock to come up front. Mayor
Caddell presented John Whitlock with a framed certificate of appreciation for
20 years of service to the town.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Request for Conditional Use Permit by Harold & Kay Mooney to have a multifamily
dwelling (apartments) located at 402 N. McNeill St. in Carthage. The property
is zoned R-20. It was decided that because the property in question had already
been divided into three separate apartments, and had been used as such, a
conditional use permit was not required.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting February 18, 2002
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting – Budget Retreat February 19, 2002
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting March 4, 2002
   D.   Budget Amendments #3, #4, #5
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Alan Hart with the USDA made a presentation to the board concerning
$160,000 loan for 10 years at 4.75% interest. The loan is for the purchase of a
fire truck. The board of commissioners unanimously approved the following;
      1.   Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions
      2.   Certificate of Approval
      3.   Operating Budget
      4.   Applicant Certification – Federal Collection Policies for Consumer
or Commercial Debt
      5.   Assurance Agreement
      6.   Equal Opportunity Agreement
      7.   Certification Regarding Document, Suspension, and Other
Responsibility Matters
      8.   Loan Resolution
   Following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Roland Gilliam requested that the board consider allowing him to
relocate the McConnell marker to his airport. The marker is located in the
front of the town hall. This item was tabled until the April meeting, so that
the Carthage Historical Committee could study this issue and make a
recommendation to the board.
      C.   American Tower Corporation – request to sublease. The board voted to
approve the request following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
United States Cellular tower located at Riley Paving. After some discussion the
board decided to allow the tower to be placed 325’ from the road, in the
proposed site location and they must plant 8’ to 10’ Leland Cypress trees at
the base of the tower, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copy of the Carthage Planning Board meeting on March 7, 2002, Parks and
Recreation Advisory Committee meeting on March 11, 2002, and Carthage
Historical Committee meeting on March 12, 2002, are attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 8:10 to
discuss legal matters, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
RECONVENE REGULAR SESSION: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 8:
35, announcing there had been no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business to come before the Carthage Board of
Commissioners, the meeting adjourned at 8:37 p.m.
_________________________ __________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk    Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 15, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
APRIL 15, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday April
15, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, Sherwood Lapping, and Mike Waschsen. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe, Director of Public
Works Sammy Taylor, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Fire
Fighter Brian Tyner, Water Plant Superintendent Alan Oldham, Planning Board
member Vernon Davis, and from the Carthage Historical Committee Helen Mohan and
Bert Patrick.
   Also present from USDA Alan Hart, from Hydrostructures Mark Barnett and Jay
Johnston. From the Pilot newspaper reporter John Chappell.
   Concerned citizens present were Anntrina & Anthony Blackshear, along with
several members of her church.
   There was one addition to the Agenda; Hydrostructures – Proposed Forest
Creek Phase II.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:01 p.m., remarking that
the purpose of the Public Hearing was for the town to apply for an additional
$30,000.00 in grant money. Alan Hart from the USDA spoke concerning the
application for the additional $30,000.00 grant. Mr. Hart wet over the items,
which are attached and do become part of these minutes. Mayor Caddell closed
the Public Hearing at 7:05.
   B.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:06 p.m. explaining that
the purpose of the Public Hearing was to a request for a Conditional Use Permit
by Anntrina Blackshear to operate a game room at the property located at 14
Courthouse Square in Carthage. Town Clerk Melissa Carter swore in Anntrina
Blackshear and Lt. Bart Davis, in order that they may give testimony concerning
the request. Mrs. Blackshear went over her plan for the Christian game room,
and answered questions from the Commissioners. Commissioner Lapping brought
attention to several undesirable aspect of having such a game room at that
proposed location. Lt. Davis reiterated some of the items that Commissioner
Lapping had mentioned, drinking and fighting in the parking lot. Lt. Davis felt
that the proposal for the game room was lacking in its plan for security
measures out side of the game room. Another concern was the parking space. The
board felt that there may not be adequate parking for a game room. After
discussion it was decided to table this issue until the May 20th regular
meeting, so that more extensive research can be done before making a decision
and to give Mrs. Blackshear an opportunity to consult with the Carthage Police
Department on how to solve the security concerns that they have with the game
room. Mayor Caddell adjourned the Public Hearing at 7:45 p.m. until the next
Regular Meeting.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners approved the application with the USDA for
an $80,000.00 grant, an additional amount of $30,000.00, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro –Tem Walton. All ayes.
Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting March 18, 2002
   B.   Proclamation for Municipal Clerk’s Week April 28 through May 4, 2002
   C.   Amendment to the Municipal Records Retention and Disposition Schedule;
Standard 3-Budget and Fiscal Records, Standard 15-Police Department Records,
Standard 13-Personnel Records
   D.   Resolution to Oppose Withholding Funds to Local Governments
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The decision on the request for a Conditional Use Permit by Anntrina
Blackshear to operate a game room at the property located at 14 Courthouse
Square was tabled until the May regular meeting, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   The request for equipment procurement from the Fire Department to
purchase a fire truck was approved following a motion made by Commissioner ,
and seconded by Commissioner . All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
Bert Patrick from the Carthage Historical Committee made a detailed
presentation concerning the McConnell Marker, located outside of the town hall.
Ms. Patrick highlighted some interesting facts concerning James McConnell’s
very distinguished career in the military and how the marker came to its
present location. It was the recommendation of the Historical Committee that
the marker remain on public property and not be moved. Commissioner Lapping
made a motion to move the marker to the new municipal building, but rescinded
his motion before a second was made. The board decided to deny the request from
Rolland Gilliam to move the marker to his airport, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried. It was decided that the Historical Committee would research the
possibility of moving the marker to the new municipal building and report back
to the board with a recommendation within 90 days.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Copy of the Carthage Parks & Recreational Advisory Committee meeting April 9,
2002 are attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping opened discussion concerning two ongoing studies; the
County Wide Surface Transportation Plan, and the Site Selection Study for
Economic Development. Commissioner Lapping remarked he would like the board to
direct the Planning Board to be more involved with these issues, and possibly
work on a comprehensive plan for the future of the town.
The board unanimously approved the Resolution for Administration of USDA Loan/
Grant Funds for the New Municipal Building, following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
Jay Johnston from Hydrostructures spoke concerning the Forest Creek proposed
project Phase II. Mr. Johnston encouraged the town to act immediately as he
felt the project was going to jeopardize the town’s water quality, as well as
affect the quantity of water that the town will be able to supply. Mr. Johnston
informed the board that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is researching the
application from Forest Creek and that now is the time to act, before the
application is approved.
The board approved to have the town attorney file court action if necessary, to
stop the process, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded
by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board asked that Mr. Johnston write a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers expressing the town’s concerns.
John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper announced that Sammy Taylor, Director of
Public Works had been chosen as this years “Citizen of the Year” by the
Carthage Rotary.
Mr. Chappell also discussed the yearly Mid Atlantic Star Party held every Oct/
Nov. Mr. Chappell spoke concerning the light pollution that streetlights can
give off. He requested that the town consider using lights that can be turned
off and that can have a shield placed on them.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:05 p.m.
__________________________       ___________________________
Melissa A. Carter, Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 30, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 30, 2002
10:30 A.M.
The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Carthage held a Special Meeting on
Tuesday April 30, 2002 at 10:30 a.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage. The
purpose of the meeting was to discuss Forest Creek’s application with the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, to allow a development to impound water from Juniper
Branch, a tributary of Nick’s Creek.
   Board Members present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Sherwood Lapping, Sam Kelly and Mike Waschsen. A quorum.
Commissioner Ronnie Fields was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Water Plant Superintendent Alan
Oldham, and Fire Chief J.D. Monroe.
   Present from Forest Creek was Mr. Barton Tuck, and Mr. Bill Patton, Golf
Course Superintendent; present from the U.S.   Army Corps of Engineers was Mr.
Henry Wicker; present from Hobbs, Upchurch, & Associates was Mr. Fred Hobbs,
Mr. David Upchurch, Mr. Bill Lester, and Angie Mettlen; Dr. Jay Carter,
Environmentalist; Dr. Charles Peacock, Head of Agronomy at N.C.   State
University; present from Hydrostructures was Mr. Mark Barnett, and Mr. James
Johnston. Concerned others were Mr. Bert Coffer, and Mr. Eric Honeycutt, from
the N.C. Cooperative Extension; and from the Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 10:30 p.m. stating that the
purpose of this meeting was to discuss the application from Forest Creek to
impound water from a tributary of Nick’s Creek. Mayor Caddell questioned why
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, Engineers for Forest Creek, had not notified the
town of the proposed project, as they have been the town’s Engineers on many
projects. Furthermore, Mayor Caddell questioned why the permit process has
taken only nine months to proceed to the point it is presently, when it took
the town two years to go through a similar process in order to be able to
increase our water withdrawal capacity. This study also cost the town over
$18, 000 to have completed and Mayor Caddell felt that it had been used in this
permit process. Mayor Caddell remarked that the Town of Carthage has many times
assisted Forest Creek, as well as, the Town of Southern Pines. Specifically,
Mayor Caddell recounted how the town helped the Town of Southern Pines and
Forest Creek obtain a sewer easement. Mayor Caddell stressed that he felt, had
there been better communication between all parties present that this meeting
would not be necessary.
   Mr. Henry Wicker, from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers began discussion on
some of the concerns that the town has in relation to the permit process. Mr.
Wicker informed the board that the permit application from Forest Creek was
mid-way through the application process. He went over the notification process,
remarking that public notices were sent to adjoining property owners as well as
any one who had requested to be on their mailing list. If the town wished to be
on that mailing list, a written request must be sent to the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers at P O Box 1890 Wilmington, NC 28403. Mr. Wicker stated that the
notices were sent via regular mail and not certified mail. The public notice
period for the State is thirty days, after which the application proceeds on to
the next step. Any concerns should have been addressed during that thirty days.
The application proceeds on with the 401 Water Quality Permit, issued by the
State. We had sixty days to appeal the issuance of this permit. That time had
elapsed. However, Mr. Wicker reported that since he is now aware that the town
was not informed of the public notice that he and his agency will address the
concerns that the town has for this project. If it is deemed necessary, the
U.S. Army corps of Engineers may modify the 401 permit that has been issued to
Forest Creek.
   Mr. Fred Hobbs, from Hobbs, Upchurch, & Associates reported that from the
beginning, there was a master plan for Forest Creek, that the process leading
up to this point has gone on for many years. Mr. Hobbs informed the board that
Hobbs, Upchurch, & Associates had not used the study that the Mayor was
referring to. Furthermore, Mr. Hobbs stated that he never thought to notify the
town of this project, that this was neither intentional nor unintentional, he
just never did it. Mr. Hobbs remarked that he would take the blame for the lack
of communication. He stated that he felt that the public notice process was
sufficient. Mr. Hobbs reported that the tests, and data that had been collected
for the permit process had been adequate for the Division of Water Quality and
Division of Water Resources, to determine that there was minimal impact, if
any, on our water. Therefore, he had not seen a need to notify the town, as in
his opinion there was nothing for the town to be concerned about. Mr. Hobbs
remarked that Forest Creek had hired Environmentalist Dr. Jay Carter to assist
with the project. Mr. Hobbs stressed that he would never be a party to anything
that would jeopardize the town’s water quality or water availability. One of
the restrictions on the permit is, Forest Creek is required to do quarterly
sampling and submit the results to the Town of Southern Pines. He reported that
nothing has ever shown up in those samples. The only thing reportable is an
increase in the levels of potassium. Mr. Hobbs apologized for the
misunderstanding between parties and the lack of communication.
   Mayor Caddell stressed that what the board wants is reassurance, in writing
that there will not be any negative impact on either the water quality or
quantity for the future of the town’s water supply.
   Mr. Barton Tuck spoke concerning his knowledge of the procedures involved in
the construction of golf courses. Mr. Tuck informed the board that the sampling
that is being done can be shared with the town. Dr. Carter and Dr. Peacock have
been assisting in this project. Mr. Tuck recounted again, that they will share
any data they have with the town.
   Dr. Jay Carter spoke concerning the study that the Mayor had referred to,
replying that he had not used the information in that study. Dr. Carter
informed the board that he had done his own study of the samples. He reported
that the actual 401 permit process began in 1999, with the permit package being
presented to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in August of 2000. There is a
restriction on the minimum release of water. The Division of Water Resources
will monitor the supply. There are several restrictions on the permit, a
wetlands mitigation plan has to be in effect, there are to be no direct
discharges, and there is a storm management plan. Dr. Carter explained the
process of how water makes its way back into a lake or stream, reporting that a
lot of the water that comes out of the tributary will be recycled back into the
lake and the stream.
   Mayor Caddell pointed out that he felt that what the board needs to know is
assurance from everyone involved that this is not going to have an adverse
affect on the future of the town’s water supply or water quality. Mayor Caddell
remarked that someone other than the town should be responsible for testing and
conducting studies, so that our engineers can review the information. The town
will accept Mr. Tuck’s offer to share the information on testing.
   The board approved a motion to accept the offer from Mr. Barton Tuck to
share all information and data collected concerning this project; Dr. Charles
Peacock will verify in writing that the data collected shows no evidence that
the town’s water quality or quantity will be impacted; and Mr. Fred Hobbs and
Mr. David Upchurch will review all the information and report their findings in
writing to the town, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mr. Alan Oldham, Carthage Water Plant Superintendent asked about the access
to information regarding the flow device. Mr. Tuck remarked that this
information will be shared with the town.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 12: 15 p.m.
_________________________         _____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk         Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
MAY 20, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
MAY 20, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday May 20,
2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Sam Kelly, Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Fire
Chief J.D. Monroe, Fire Fighter Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie,
Police Lt. Bart Davis, Planning Board Members Vernon Kelly, Ron Mohr and wife
Mrs. Mohr.
   Also present were Anntrina K. Blackshear, along with some of the youth from
her church, and reporter John Chappell from the Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Sam Kelly gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Mayor Caddell reconvened the April 15, 2002 Public Hearing on the request for a
Conditional Use Permit by Anntrina Blackshear to operate a game room at the
property located at 14 Courthouse Square. Mayor Caddell opened the Public
Hearing at 7:04 p.m. This Public Hearing had been tabled so that Ms. Blackshear
could have additional time to comply with the requirements for the conditional
use permit. Town Clerk Melissa Carter swore in Anntrina Blackshear, Chief Chris
McKenzie, and Lt. Bart Davis, in order that they may give testimony concerning
the request. Lt. Davis spoke concerning the security issues that had been
raised at the previous hearing. Lt. Davis remarked that he and Chief McKenzie
felt that Ms. Blackshear had addressed the security problems and were satisfied
with the results. Chief McKenzie highlighted some of the security measures that
will be in force at the proposed game room; each child will have a photo ID
card, they will have someone at the front door, if someone leaves, they will
not be allowed to re-enter the premises, no parking allowed in the back, and
signed affidavits so that the police could remove anyone they felt necessary.
Chief McKenzie recommended that if the conditional use permit were approved,
that the board impose a probationary period on the game room.
Commissioner Lapping inquired as to the affect a probationary period would have
on the financial end of the game room. Ms. Blackshear replied that if a
probationary period were imposed, it would not negatively affect the finances.
The games would be rented and the lease on the building is flexible.
Ms. Blackshear also reported that the hours of operation would be different in
the summer months than during school months. Commissioner Lapping spoke
concerning the lack of parking spaces, even if they park some cars behind the
thrift store, parking will remain an ongoing problem.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton questioned the reliability of using volunteers to staff
the game room. Ms. Blackshear reported that if there were no volunteers, then
the game room would not open. However, she felt there were enough members of
her church willing to volunteer, so that there would not be a problem.
   Commissioner Waschsen inquired about the members bringing guests. Ms.
Blackshear remarked that only those children with a picture ID would be allowed
to enter. No one else would be allowed to come to the game room.
   Commissioner Fields indicated he was in support of the program, however the
proposed location was undesirable. He felt it would hurt the chances of
attracting more businesses to the downtown area. Commissioner Fields stated he
would be in support of this project, at an alternate location, somewhere other
than the downtown business district.
   The board unanimously voted to deny the request from Anntrina Blackshear for
a conditional use permit at the property located at 14 Courthouse Square after
the finding of the following facts; the conditional use permit would; (1.) Hurt
surrounding property values, (2.) Negatively affect the public health, safety,
and welfare of the area, (3.) Did not meet all required conditions and
specifications as set forth in the Carthage Zoning Ordinance Section 100.44,
(4.) Was not in harmony with the surrounding area or in conformance with the
comprehensive plan; following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded
by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Caddell indicated that Ms. Blackshear could research alternate
locations for the proposed game room, and submit another application to the
board.
   Mayor Caddell closed the public hearing at 7:25 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting April 15, 2002
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting April 30, 2002
   C.   Budget Transfer #A
   D.   Budget Amendment #6, #7
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The Carthage Board of Commissioners set the time and date of the budget
workshop at 6:00 p.m. Monday June 17, 2002. Commissioner Lapping remarked he
would not be in attendance at that meeting. Town Manger Carol Cleetwood to
forward copy of proposed budget to all board members as soon as possible.
   B.   The board granted the Town of Southern Pines a sewer easement across
town property along Hwy 22, near Whispering Pines, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   The board unanimously voted to adopt an Ordinance Regulating the Use of
the Parks Owned by the Town of Carthage, copy attached, which is and does
become part of these minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board voted in favor of the Resolution Adopting the Local
Government Debt Setoff Program, copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board had canceled their meeting on May 2, 2002.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields remarked what an outstanding job all the town employees as
well as buggy festival committee members had done on this years’ buggy
festival. He added it was the best festival yet. The board voted to hold a
barbeque or a catered picnic for all involved with the buggy festival and their
families, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. All of the Commissioners
commended all the town employees for all their hard work.
Commissioner Lapping informed the board that Director of Public Works Director
Sammy Taylor was being recognized by the Carthage Rotary Club as Outstanding
Citizen of the Year, with a lunch on Thursday May 23, 2002 at 12:00 p.m. at the
McDonald Building.
Fire Chief J.D.   Monroe questioned why awarding the bid for the fire truck had
not been placed on the agenda. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood replied she still
had some additional work to be completed on USDA loan application, and she
needed the information on the accessories with quotes for each item and the
company where the quotes were obtained.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell thanked the town crew and the police department for all their
help with the backdrop for the theater.
   Mr. Ron Mohr spoke concerning the problems with dogs running at large within
the town limits. Mrs. Mohr remarked that when her grandchildren are in the yard
playing she is fearful of the dogs running through the yard, as some appear to
be vicious. Both Mr. And Mrs. Mohr asked that the board investigate the
possibility of having a dog ordinance and leash law. Mayor Caddell instructed
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood to call surrounding towns to find out how they
handle the problem and if they enforce a leash law. Furthermore, Mayor Caddell
asked that the Planning Board be instructed to address this issue at their next
regular meeting in June.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL G.S.   143-318.11 (a) (1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 8:25 p.m..
The purpose of the closed session was to discuss personnel.
RECONVENE REGULAR MEETING: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 8:59
p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked there had been no no action taken
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m.
________________________       ______________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk      Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
JUNE 17, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING – MCDONALD BUILDING
JUNE 17, 2002
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday June
17, 2002 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a Budget Workshop, and an appearance
by Jonathan Williams, to discuss plans for the property he recently purchased
off of 15-501, close to the new Municipal Building.
   Board Members present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.   Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, and Mike Waschsen. A quorum.
Commissioner Sherwood Lapping was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, and Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan Williams.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.
   The Board of Commissioners reviewed the proposed 2002 – 2003 FY budget.
There was some discussion concerning the elimination of the funds for the
Rescue Squad. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that the Buggy Festival
should have sufficient funds available to give to the Rescue Squad, to replace
the funding the town has given them in the past. Finance Officer Linda Phillips
emphasized what a tight budget this was, and we need to hold the line on
spending. There just is not any extra money at all.
   There was discussion concerning raising the fine for violating Mandatory
Water Conservation Measures. After much discussion, it was decided to raise the
fine for violation of Mandatory Water Conservation Measures from $30.00 a day
to $500.00 a day, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The Board of Commissioners unanimously approved the proposed 2002 – 2003 FY
Budget, as presented, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and
seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mr. Jonathan Williams addressed the Board concerning his plans for possible
future development of the acreage he recently purchased off of 15-501, close to
the new Municipal Building. He remarked that he has had an offer to purchase a
portion of the front acreage, from a developer that builds for Target, Staples
and like companies. There was some discussion from the Commissioners with a
brief question and answer period.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 7:00 p.m.
____________________________          ______________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk         Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
JUNE 17, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
JUNE 17, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday June
17, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.Walton, Commissioners
Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioner Sherwood
Lapping was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Water
Plant Supervisor Alan Oldham, Fire Chief J.D. Monroe, Fire Fighter Brian Tyner,
Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan, Planning Board Members Vernon Kelly, and Mr.
Ron Mohr, along with Mrs. Mohr.
   Public Appearance guests were Artie Barber, Dan Oates, Juanita Harbour, Earl
Harbour, and Brian Harbour.
   Concerned citizens present were Dennis Carr, Mr. & Mrs. Milton Dowdy, and
from the Pilot newspaper reporter John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
   A.   Artie Barbour addressed the board concerning a memorial for his father
Arthur Barbour. Artie explained that he has commissioned an artist that uses
scrap metal, and various other discarded materials to create interactive art
forms for memorials. He would like this to be an interactive art form for the
children, to be located at the new Nancy Kiser Park. Furthermore, Artie
requested permission to allow the artist to come and review materials from the
old water plant and fire station that the town no longer has a need for. Mayor
Caddell remarked that permission for a memorial had previously been given, but
a location had not been selected. After some discussion, the board approved the
proposal from Artie to have a memorial for Arthur, made out of discarded items
from the old water plant and fire station, to be located at the Nancy Kiser
Park, following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen, and seconded by
Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried. Artie informed the board once the
artist has a preliminary plan drawn up of the proposed memorial, he will
present it to the board, for their approval.
   B.   Dan Oates presented a four page, signed petition from citizens in
Carthage, concerning the beautification of Barrett Street and surrounding
properties. Mr. Oates remarked that he felt the town should be stricter in
enforcement of the ordinances regulating junk cars, and the general appearances
of property. Mr. Oates implored the board to consider his request, along with
the signed petition, and begin taking action to have the properties located at
202 West Barrett Street, property owned by Mrs. Geraldine Watson and Martin
Street, property owned by Johnny Grimm, cleaned up. Mayor Caddell replied that
he was aware of the condition of the properties in question and the town has
acted in the past to take action to have them cleaned up. A lot had been done
to make the property owners comply. However, Mayor Caddell reported that with
the past few years, the town has had several large ongoing projects, the new
water plant, the new park, and the new Municipal Building. This has resulted in
this issue being put on the back burner. Mayor Caddell informed Mr. Oates, the
board would review the petition, and address it at the next regular meeting in
July.
   C.   Juanita Harbour addressed the board concerning the recent water crisis
and the town’s request that the Laundromat cut back their hours. Mrs. Harbour
presented the board with a letter from the Coin Laundry Association, in which
they cite that to their knowledge, no municipality has ever asked a Laundromat
to close during draught conditions. Furthermore, Mrs. Harbour presented
information concerning the water efficiency of front-loading washing machines.
She requested that the board not ask her business to close, that she be allowed
to remain open. Mayor Caddell remarked that she has been very cooperative and
helpful during this situation. At this time they saw no need to close the
Laundromat.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Caddell open the Public Hearing to hear comment on the proposed
Town of Carthage Budget FY 2002-2003 at 7:45 p.m. There was some brief
discussion. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:50 p.m.
PUBLIC HEARING:    B.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:50 p.m.
The purpose of the Public Hearing was to hear comment concerning the request
for re-zoning 33.36 acres LRK # 1001, from R-10 to Thoroughfare Business
District. The request for re-zoning had been made by Jonathan Williams, who has
an option to purchase the property. Mr. Williams informed the board that the
property in question is in the back of the acreage he recently purchased,
located off of Hwy 15-501. There was one adjacent property owner present, Mr.
Dennis Carr. He asked that the board carefully consider any change to the
zoning. He does not want a fast food restaurant or a Home Depot in his back
yard. Mr. Williams answered that the type of business he had in mind for this
property was offices such as in Turnberry Woods, or possibly a hotel/motel. He
remarked he would be very cognizant of the environment on this acreage. He
wanted something that was kind and gentle to the property. Town Manager
remarked that this property is in the Watershed District, so the town would
have to be somewhat strict about any construction on the property. After
discussion it was decided to change the zoning of the 33.36 acres LRK #1001
from R-10, to a Special Use District, contingent upon the town’s approval of
the uses Mr. Williams wishes to have for the property, following a motion made
by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried. The Public Hearing was closed at 8.05 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the item listed below, following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner Kelly.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting May 20, 2002
   B.   Budget Transfers B, C, D.
   C.   Budget Amendments #8, #9, #10
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does Become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Adopt Budget for FY 2002-2003. This had already been completed.
   B.   Amendment to the Water/Sewer Connection Policy. This was tabled due to
the current drought conditions.
   C.   Board and Committee appointments/re-appointments. Tom Mohan, Vernon
Kelly, Bob Hunt, and Percy Degraffenreid were re-appointed to the Planning
Board; Nancy Gilliam, Kay Davis, Jean Prickett, Carol Steed, Susan Smith, and
Shawna Smith were all re-appointed the Carthage Historical Committee, following
a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Award bid for fire truck. The bid was awarded to C.W. Williams &
Company, in the amount of $149,580.00, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried. Purchase
order is to be given after July 1, 2002.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Planning Board met June 6, 2002. Copy of minutes is attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields reported on the appreciation dinner for town employees. It
was decided to wait until September to try to plan the dinner, due to busy
schedules and vacations. Commissioner Fields opened discussion concerning
allowing the car wash to drill a well for emergency purposes only. It was
decided to hold a Special Meeting concerning the current drought conditions and
mandatory water conservation measures on Friday June 21, 2002 at 8:00 a.m. at
the new Water Plant. Discussion of the car wash drilling a well will be
discussed at the special meeting.
XIV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL, G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 9:10 p.m. The
purpose of the closed session was to discuss personnel. RECONVENE REGULAR
MEETING: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 10:00 p.m. Mayor
Caddell remarked there had been no action taken.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 10:01 p.m.
________________________      _________________________
Melissa A. Carter, Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JUNE 21, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING – WATER PLANT
JUNE 21, 2002
8:00 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Friday June
21, 2002 at 8:00 a.m. at the Water Plant in Carthage.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the mandatory water
conservation measures, the current water shortage crisis, and future plans for
water sources.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A quorum. Commissioners Sherwood Lapping and
Sam Kelly were absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor and Water Plant Supervisor Alan Oldham.
Present from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates were Bill Lester, Stephanie Clossen,
P.E. and Tim Mettlen, P.G.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:10 a.m.
   Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor presented an update on the current
water shortage, reporting that he is planning to go by boat in Nick’s Creek
today to try to locate the possible source that is holding a lot of the water
back. He gave a brief over view of the situation as it stands at the present
time. The town is pumping water from Nick’s Creek and will continue to pump
until the water runs out, however, he is not sure how long we will be able to
pump. Sammy also reported that the town seems to be maintaining the level of
water in the reservoir, and has not gained any. Sammy stated he has received
some prices for dredging the reservoir in the range of $40,000.00 to
$45,000.00.
   Mayor Caddell commented on the Town of Southern Pines and their cooperation
with the Town of Carthage, remarking that they have been extremely helpful
during this crisis.
   There was much discussion concerning possible options the town may have
available to remedy the current water shortage. There was also much discussion
for possible future water sources.
   Mayor Caddell declared that the citizens of Carthage have been very
cooperative during the mandatory water conservation measures. Water
Superintendent Alan Oldham remarked there had been a significant decrease in
the amount of water the water plant was producing since we had asked the
citizens to conserve.
   Commissioners Fields opened discussion concerning the car wash and the
possibility of allowing him to dig a well for emergency use only. After
discussion it was decided to allow the car wash to dig a well, with several
strict restrictions; he is to use it only during emergency drought conditions,
the town is to regulate it’s use; he will install a sign that states he is
using well water when this happens; the town will install a meter to bill him
for sewer, and the town will also approve of the cross connections and backflow
prevention, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Fields is to call
and discuss this option with Danny Campbell, owner of the car wash. He is to
remain closed at this time.
   It was further decided that the hours at the Laundromat would remain the
same. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood is to call and discuss various options with
the Mr. & Mrs. Harbour, concerning the possibility of them installing a well.
   There was some discussion concerning the possibility of the town drilling a
well. Mr. Tim Mettlin, P.G. from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates discussed the
geography of the Carthage area, in relation to the Aberdeen, Pinebluff area. He
stated that the Aberdeen area has more success with drilling wells because of
the sandy soil. Carthage has different geography and it is more difficult to
hit water under ground in this area. This results in a significant increase in
the cost of drilling wells. Furthermore, Mr. Mettlin remarked that the town has
somewhat of an advantage in having surface water, because it is easier to
recover from draught conditions. Under ground wells take years to be affected
by draught conditions, but it also takes years for them to recover.
   The town may investigate the possibility of stopping the sources that are
damning up Nick’s Creek. The Town Attorney Mr. Doug Gill has remarked that we
could file an injunction and take the parties responsible to court, but it
would be a time consuming option and costly.
   It was decided to investigate the dredging of the reservoir, as well as, the
possibility of expanding the reservoir from 5 acres to possibly 8 or 10 acres.
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:20 a.m.
_____________________________      ___________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk      Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
JULY 15, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
JULY 15, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday July
15, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Mike Waschsen, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Sam
Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Police Officer Robert
Caulk, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Assistant Fire Chief Adam Coles, Fire Captain
Gerald Hayes, Fire Lt. Kenneth Wilkes, Fire Lt. Brain Whitaker, and Fire Lt.
Bradley Whitaker, Fire Department Secretary Steven Brown, Town employee Milton
Dowdy, and Town Attorney Doug Gill. Terry Palmiter from Time Warner
Cablevision, and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper were also in
attendance.
   Concerned citizens present for the Fire Department were, Brian Monroe,
Joanna Monroe, J.D. Monroe, Tom Brady, Winfred Ingold, and Lassie Scott, Jr.
   Concerned citizens present for the Public Hearing on the request for a
conditional use permit were, Mr. & Mrs. F.L.   Rorie, Billy Salmon, Kelly
Oldham, Ronald Grey, Linda Presley, Jim Presley, and Mrs. M. Louise Seawell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Sherwood Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Ronnie Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
   A.   Mr. Winfred Ingold addressed the board concerning the Carthage Fire
Service District Board. Mr. Ingold began by reading a portion of the contract
between the town and the county, which was created and signed in 1978. Mr.
Ingold went on to discuss the surplus fire service district money. He indicated
he does not understand where the reserve district money is being shown. Mr.
Ingold went on to infer that the town had embezzled the fire service district
money. Furthermore, Mr. Ingold spoke about the budget that was presented for
the FYE 2002-2003, remarking that the town had cut the budget, without reducing
the fire service district tax rate. Mr. Lassie Scott, Jr. reiterated what Mr.
Ingold had said, and added that he felt there had been a lack of communication
between the town board and the fire service district board. J.D.   Monroe gave
a slide presentation on Carthage Fire District funding, with revenues and
expenditures from the inception of the fire department to the present.
Commissioner Lapping asked Mr. Ingold if he had understood him correctly when
he had inferred that he felt the town had embezzled, and absconded with fire
service district money. Mr. Ingold replied that this is the way it appears to
him. Mr. Lapping brought attention to the fact that the terms of some of the
members of the fire service had expired and they had not been reappointed,
including Mr. Ingold. This is an issue they need to address with the County.
Mayor Caddell remarked that once the members are properly appointed or
reappointed, then the board will be happy to meet with the fire service
district board and go over any issues that they want cleared up. Mayor Caddell
stressed that he felt the town and the fire service district would be able to
come to an agreement on these issues. Mayor Caddell will consult with fire
service district member Archie Kelly, and set up a meeting. After discussion,
the board voted to approve putting a line item in the audit for fire department
reserve, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Attorney Jerry Rhoades spoke to the board concerning the old town hall.
He indicated his law firm of Webb & Graves is very interested in a possible
long-term lease on the building. Mr. Rhoades made a proposal to pay the town
$200 a month for possibly a ninety day option to lease the property. This would
give them time to research the costs of renovations on the building, and would
ensure that the town would not lease it to any one else during that time.
Commissioner Lapping indicated that the town would be in favor of a possible
long-term lease, but felt that somewhere in the range of $500 to $700 was a
more equitable amount for the ninety-day option period. It was decided that
Commissioner Waschsen, Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, and Mayor Larry Caddell
would meet with representatives of the law firm, within the next few weeks, to
negotiate an equitable amount for the lease option.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 8:18 to hear comment on the
request from Mr. & Mrs. F.L. Rorie to have duplex apartments on the property
located at 704 S. McNeill Street LRK #6407. The property is zoned R-20 and
duplex apartments are a conditional use. Town Clerk Melissa Carter swore in the
participants, Mr. & Mrs. F.L. Rorie, Ronnie Grey, Jim Presley, and Louise
Seawell. Mr. Rorie outlined their plans for renovations, if they purchased the
property. Mrs. Rorie presented a drawing of the interior plans for renovation,
copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. & Mrs. Rorie
remarked that they would not change the outside structure, other than moving a
few of the decks around. They plan to landscape the property and substantially
improve the appearance. Mr. Rorie explained that the cost to upgrade the
property was approximately $75, 000, and if they could have a duplex, they
would be able to recoup their investment quicker. Mrs. Rorie went on to explain
that with their history of rental property, they have better tenants in duplex
apartments, as opposed to single-family dwellings. Mr. Rorie informed the board
he had gone to all the adjoining property owners and inquired how they felt
about the possibility of the duplex apartments. He stated that no one had
objected. The board then heard testimony from Mr. Ronald Grey, who owns
property in the neighborhood. He presented a petition to the board with thirty
signatures of property owners, who were against the conditional use permit to
have a duplex located within their neighborhood. Mr.. Grey remarked he felt
that the property value of surrounding homes would be adversely affected, by
allowing the duplex. Mr. Jim Presley gave testimony that he as well, felt
property values would be lowered, and would not have purchased his present
property, had known there was a possibility of a duplex being located within
his neighborhood. Mrs. Louise Seawell presented testimony that her experiences
with rental property has not been good. She has had to pick up a lot of trash,
and debris around her property because of people who are renting. Mayor Caddell
closed the Public Hearing at 8:40 p.m.
RECONVENE REGULAR SESSION: The board went back into their Regular Meeting at 8:
40 p.m. The board voted to deny the request from Mr. & Mrs. F.L. Rorie to have
a conditional use permit for the property located at 704 S. McNeill Street,
after the finding of fact that the criteria listed in the Carthage Zoning
Ordinance Section 100.44, could not be met; that the issuance of a conditional
use permit would; 1. Hurt surrounding property values, 2. Was not in harmony
with the surrounding area or conformance with the comprehensive plan, 3. Did
not meet all required conditions and specifications, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes special Meeting June 17, 2002.
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting June 17, 2002.
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting June 21, 2002.
   D.   Minutes Special Meeting July 1, 2002.
   E.   Budget Amendments #11, #12, #13.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board approved the contract with Time Warner Cablevision for 15
years, with a 5% franchise fee, copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   After discussion the board approved the Resolution for a Rural Center
Grant, to be completed by Hobbs, Upchurch, & Associates, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. Three ayes.
One nay. Motion carried. Commissioner Fields voted nay.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XIV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/ PERSONNEL, G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1):
The Carthage Board of Commissioners commenced a closed session at 9:05 p.m. to
discuss legal matters/personnel.
RECONVENE REGULAR MEETING: Mayor Caddell reconvened the regular meeting at 9.35
p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked there had been no action taken.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:35 p.m.
_________________________      ______________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk      Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
JULY 1, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JULY 1, 2002
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting, Monday, July 1,
2002 at 8:00 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem, Bill Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen and Sherwood Lapping.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood and Finance Officer Linda
Phillips.
Town Manager Cleetwood reported on the Town’ s water situation and recommended
that we change some of our mandatory water restrictions as the water levels
have improved. Changes to make include allowing lawns and personal car washing
two days a week, Wednesdays and Saturdays, not to exceed thirty gallons of
water. The car wash will be allowed to reopen on Thursday through Saturday, not
to exceed 30,000 gallons per billing cycle. The Laundromat will continue with
limited hours.
The Board went into closed session to discuss personnel (G.S.143318.11 (a)(1).
The regular meeting was reconvened.
The Board discussed appointment of Fire Chief for The Town of Carthage which
runs from July 1 to June 30 each year. Commissioner Lapping made the motion to
nominate Brian Tyner as the Fire Chief on a six month probationary status with
a second by Commissioner Kelly that passed unanimously.
Commissioner Fields reported on the long, hard hours that the Public Works
Department has put in during the water shortage and recommended that each
employee in this department receive a bonus in the amount of $50.00. This
recommendation was seconded by Commissioner Lapping and passed unanimously.
Town Manager Cleetwood reported that the Recreation Committee members are up
for reappointment for the coming year. She is to contact the present members to
see if they will accept reappointment to this committee.
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting.
_______________________________________ ____________________________
Linda Phillips, Finance Officer/Deputy Clerk    Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
AUGUST 22, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
AUGUST 22, 2002
The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Thursday August
22, 2002 at 8:00 a.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Board members present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem Bill Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping and Sam Kelly. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
Town of Carthage employees and committee members present were Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood, Public Works Director Sammy Taylor, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Police Lieutenant Bart Davis, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner and Planning Board Chairman Tom Mohan.
Others present wee Danny Campbell, Juanita Harbour, Roland Gilliam, Sam Riddle
and Jerry Rhoades.
I.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order.
II.    INVOCATION
– Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
– Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance to the
flag.
IV.    PUBLIC APPERANCES
   A.   Danny Campbell – Carthage Car Wash – Mr. Campbell appeared before the
board to request that his carwash be allowed to re-open since the reservoir
levels are up and the Town is getting water from Southern Pines. He has
determined that drilling a well for his business is not feasible at this time.
There was discussion from the Mayor, each Board member and remarks from Public
Works Director Taylor as to their feelings to Mr. Campbell’s situation and the
Town’s conservation policy. A motion was made by Commissioner Lapping to defer
action on his request until such time that the Town Manager and Public Works
Director determine that the Town reservoir is back up to levels the Town feels
are adequate and the question as how to handle the backwash at the water plant
are answered. Commissioner Fields seconded the motion which was passed
unanimously.
   B.   Juanita Harbour – Laundromat – Mrs. Harbour declined to speak as she
stated she had previously sent a letter to each board member about her
concerns.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
- None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
– The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion
made by
Mayor Pro-tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner Lapping.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting July 15, 2002
   B.   Budget Amendments #14, #15
   C.   Budget Transfers E, F, G, H
   D.   Re-appointments to the Carthage Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
   E.   Amendment to the Capital Reserve Resolution – Adopted 8/17/98
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT
– A copy is attached.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Petition Requesting a Non-Contiguous Annexation Received from Roland
Gilliam. Mr. Gilliam appeared before the board to request that the Town annex
approximately 52 acres located on Union Church Road. After much discussion from
the Board, Commissioner Lapping moved to approve providing town water to this
property, subject to water crisis situation improving, at out of town rates and
Mr. Gilliam to present a subdivision plan to the Board to review for annexation
purposes. Commissioner Fields seconded the motion, which was unanimously
passed.
   B.   Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate a Petition Received Under
G.S.   160A-58.1. – No action.
   C.   Certificate of Sufficiency – No action.
   D.   Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing on Question of Annexation
Pursuant to G.S.160A-58.2. – No action.
   E.   Resolution of Intent – Declaring the Intention of the Town of Carthage
to Consider the Closing of a Portion of 4th Avenue. – Resolution unanimously
passed following a motion by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Fields.
   F.   Resolution of Intent – Declaring the Intention of the Town of Carthage
to Consider the Closing of a Portion of Chatham Street. – Resolution
unanimously passed following motion by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Walton.
   G.   Resolution of Intent – Declaring the Intention of the Town of Carthage
to Consider the Closing of a Portion of Black Avenue – Resolution unanimously
passed following a motion by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping.
VIII.    OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Lease of Town Property Located at 203 Barrett Street – Jerry Rhoades
appeared before the board for approval on the Option to Lease Town property
located at 203 Barrett Street between the Town of Carthage and Webb & Graves
Investment Properties. Commissioner Lapping motioned that modifications be made
to the Lease Option and once these have been completed, Mr. Rhoades is to
present them to the Town Manager for review and approval. The motion was
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Walton and unanimously passed.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
– None
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– Commissioner Lapping commended the Town Manager and staff on the minutes of
previous meeting. He also noted that he, the Mayor and Town Manager attended a
meeting in Southern Pines recently and made some important contacts for
purposes of the Town. It was agreed upon for the Town to host a joint luncheon
to show our appreciation to the Town of Southern Pines and others for their
valuable assistance during the drought with Mayor Caddell opting to cover the
cost of this event. Commissioner Lapping stated that he would like to go on
record for intended purposes of dredging and enlarging the Town pond to 20
acres as soon as possible, which was seconded by Commissioner Fields and
unanimously approved. Commissioner Lapping then stated that we should all
applaud the Public Works Department for their dedicated service during this
water crisis, seconded by Commissioner Fields with unanimous approval.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
– None
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11(a)(1)
(6)
– There were no matters to discuss in closed session.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT
– Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:26 a.m.
______________________________________      ______________________
Linda Phillips, Finance Officer/Deputy Clerk      Larry Caddell, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 4, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 4, 2002
10:00 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Wednesday September 4, 2002 at 10:00 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building
located at 4396 US Hwy 15/501 in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.   Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Sam Kelly, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Carter,
Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, and reporter for the Pilot Newspaper
John Chappell.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the temporary dam at
Nick’s Creek, and to discuss water conservation/billing.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 10:00 a.m.
   Mayor Caddell opened discussion concerning lifting the mandatory water
conservation restrictions. Due to the recent rains, water from the Southern
Pines reservoir, and the conservation efforts of the water customers, and town
employees, it was decided to lift the mandatory water restrictions; have
voluntary water conservation with irrigation meters only allowed to be used on
Saturdays, private car washing only on Saturdays, and bulk water sales still
prohibited, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Caddell updated the Board on the status of the temporary dam permit
application process. Some discussion followed concerning the estimate, received
from Calvin Ross for the construction of a temporary dam, copy attached, which
is and does become part of these minutes. The Board approved to have the timber
cut on approximately 3-5 acres surrounding Nick’s Creek, leaving a 20’ buffer
around the surrounding property, with Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor in
charge of the sale of the timber. Sammy to move forward in securing bids for
the sale of the cut timber as soon as possible following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. It was decided to
approve the estimate received by Calvin Ross, and to have Mr. Ross begin the
work on constructing the temporary dam as soon as he is able to, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton.
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 10:30 a.m.
_____________________________         _____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk          Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 16, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2002
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday
September 16, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Sherwood Lapping, Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A quorum.
Commissioner Sam Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and
Planning Board member Vernon Kelly.
   Concerned citizens present were Mr. & Mrs. Archie Kelly, Duncan Kelly, Mr. &
Mrs. Roland Gilliam, Chip Cothran, Helen Mohan, Susan Smith, Bert Patrick,
Major Killian, and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
There were none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:03 to hear comments on the request
from Duncan Kelly for a zoning text amendment to change machinery, equipment,
supplies, and motor vehicle sales from a Use Not Permitted to a Conditional
Use. Archie Kelly was first to address the board. Mr. Kelly informed the board
that his building located at 102 McReynolds Street; formerly where the Piggly
Wiggly grocery store had been located has been empty for four years. This
property is within the Central Business District, which currently does not
allow the sale of machinery, equipment, supplies, and motor vehicles. Mr.
Kelly, along with his son Duncan Kelly is requesting that the zoning text be
amended to allow such sales to be a Conditional Use in the Central Business
District. Mr. Kelly stressed that he has owned and operated several businesses
within the Town of Carthage for 35 years, during which he feels his businesses
have been an enhancement to the town. Mr. Kelly feels he has never operated a
business which has been detrimental to the business districts in Carthage.
Duncan Kelly informed the board that he had recently become a licensed retail
dealer for the sales of motor vehicles. He would like to be able to sell his
vehicles in the downtown central business district. Judy Kelly spoke about the
need to provide young families who have chosen to live and work in Carthage, a
way of earning that living. There were several members of the Carthage
Historical Committee, as well as the Garden Club who asked to speak on this
issue. Helen Mohan spoke in opposition of changing the zoning text. Mrs. Mohan
felt that any equipment, machinery, or car sales would be a detriment to the
beauty and charm of the downtown area. Bert Patrick commented that she was not
in support of any change to the zoning text. She felt the display of cars and/
or equipment would deter the re-vitalization of the downtown central business
district. Susan Smith reiterated the comments of the others, adding that she
felt Carthage needed to show it’s best around the Court House, if we are to
attract upscale business and growth. Major Killian voiced the same opinions
concerning the possible display of equipment and cars around the Court House.
Marvin Hamer communicated that he thought that zoning was instituted to
implement a harmonious blend of businesses in a zoning district. He feels that
the sales of equipment, machinery and cars does not blend in with the down town
district. Jay Smith remarked that he would like to see the property being used
and not sitting there empty. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 8:15
p.m. The board voted to amend the zoning text amendment to change the sale of
equipment, machinery, supplies, and motor vehicles from a use not permitted to
a conditional use in the Central Business District, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen; two ayes, two nays,
Mayor Caddell breaking the tie by voting aye. Commissioner Fields and Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton voted nay. Motion carried. Susan Smith remarked that if the
issue of a conditional use permit comes before the board at the October
meeting, that perhaps the Mayor should recuse himself from voting, if he is
placed in a position where his vote is required.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items below, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting August 22, 2002.
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting September 4, 2002.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
The board tabled a decision on the request from NC DOT for the town to take
over the ownership and maintenance of the pump station located at the NC DOT
facility on NC Dot drive. This item was tabled so that Director Public Works
Sammy Taylor could investigate and research the condition of the pump station,
and the feasibility of the town taking it over.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
The board voted to table the petition requesting a non-contiguous annexation
received from Roland Gilliam, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board voted to put the issue of selling water to out of town residents on
the agenda for the October 21, 2002 regular meeting. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Planning Board meeting September 4, 2002, Historical Committee meeting
September 10, 2002, copies attached, which are and do become part of these
minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields inquired about the past due water accounts. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood replied that the past due water accounts have greatly improved
over the past year.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Mr. Marvin Hamer voiced his opinion that he was very surprised at the attitude
of some of the board members tonight during the issue of the zoning text
amendment.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/ PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
There were no matters to discuss in closed session.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:05 p.m.
___________________________      ____________________________
Melissa A.   Carter, Town Clerk      Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 21, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
OCTOBER 21, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday October
21, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Sam Kelly, Sherwood Lapping and Ronnie Fields. A quorum.
Commissioner Mike Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Finance Officer Linda Phillips,
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Lt. Bart Davis, and Planning Board member Vernon
Kelly.
   Auditors from Cherry, Bekaert & Holland, Eddie Burke, CPA, and Carlene
Kamradt, CPA were present to present the 2001-2002 FY Audit.
   Concerned citizens present were James Brand, Floyd Tyner, Frankie Wallace,
Larry Riley, Jerry Rhoades, Geraldine Moore, Jerry Wallace, David Craft,
Maureen Krueger, Richard Edelman, Jean Prickett, Helen Mohan, Roland Gilliam,
and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Carlene Kamradt, CPA presented the FY 2001-2002 Audit. Ms. Kamradt highlighted
several items of the audit, remarking that the town had obtained an
“unqualified or clean opinion” from the auditors.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:20 p.m. to hear testimony
concerning a request for a conditional use permit from James Brand to change
the single-family dwelling located at 704 McReynolds to a two-family dwelling.
Town Clerk Melissa Carter swore in James Brand. Mr. Brand presented the board
with a drawing of the proposed renovation for the downstairs basement,
reporting that he wished to turn the basement into an apartment, in which he
will move into and maintain his residence. He wanted to rent the upstairs, as
he felt it was too much house for him alone. Town Clerk Melissa Carter swore in
Floyd Tyner, and Frankie Wallace who were against the proposed granting of a
conditional use permit. Mr. Tyner stated he was concerned about there being
some sort of control over the types of renters. Furthermore, he was concerned
about there being enough room for parking. Mr. Brand responded that he plans to
stay and live in the basement and only rent the top part of the house, so he
would be able to exercise a considerable amount of control over whom he rents
the top part to. Mr. Tyner remarked that this made a difference to him, he felt
somewhat more comfortable with the idea of Mr. Brand living there. Ms. Frankie
Wallace spoke against allowing the conditional use permit for a two dwelling
house. She remarked that the parking was a big concern for her, with the
possibility of so many occupants coming and going.
Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:40 p.m.
   B.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:40 p.m. on the Resolution
of Intent to Close Portions of 4th Avenue, Black Avenue, and Chatham Street. A
copy of a map is attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
There was no opposition to the proposed street closings. Mayor Caddell closed
the Public Hearing at 7:42 p.m.
Based on the following finding of fact: the issuance of a Conditional Use
Permit for a two-family dwelling located at 704 McReynolds Street will not
endanger public health and safety, nor decrease adjacent property values, all
Conditional Use Permit criteria listed in Section 100.44 of the Zoning
Ordinance can be met; The Carthage Board of Commissioners voted to grant a
Conditional Use Permit to James Brand following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting September 16, 2002.
   B.   Budget transfers A-B.
   C.   Resolution Ordering the Closing of a Portion of 4th Avenue, Black
Avenue, and Chatham Street.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
The presentation of the FY 2001-2002 Audit had been conducted under Public
Appearances. The board approved the Resolution Supporting the Moore County One-
Half Cent Sales Tax, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried. The Resolution
Authorizing the Advertisement of an Offer to Purchase the Old Fire Station
located at 102 McNeill Street , was unanimously passed following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. The board
tentatively approved the offer to purchase the old fire station from Richard
Edelman, in order to begin the upset bid procedure, reserving the right to
refuse any bid at any time, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. Mr. Edelman is to present 5% of the bid or
$3,750 within five days. Roland Gilliam presented his preliminary plat for the
Airport Subdivision. Mr. Gilliam was interested in being allowed to purchase
water and/or sewer from the town for his subdivision. There was much discussion
concerning the property being annexed, as it is contiguous to the town limits,
furthermore, the town’s water and sewer ordinance prevents the sale of water to
out of town residents, unless the property owner petitions for annexation. Mr.
Gilliam remarked he was not in favor of annexation, because of the airport and
the property taxes that would be involved. The board approved the preliminary
plat for the Airport Subdivision, with no decision being made concerning the
water/sewer, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
The board amended the Town of Carthage Water and Sewer Connection Policy
Section I.; water and sewer rates will be two and one-half times the in-town
rates, copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes, following
a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board approved taking over the pump station at DOT
Drive, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried. The NCDOT will be responsible
for the electrical service and installation of a fence around the pump station.
The board unanimously approved the lease option for the previous Town Hall
located at 203 Barrett Street, presented by the Law Firm of Webb & Graves, copy
attached, which is and does become part of these minutes, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes.
Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Planning Board Meeting October 4, 2002 canceled due to lack of a quorum.
Carthage Historical Committee Meeting September 10, 2002, copy attached, which
is and does become part of these minutes. Carthage Park & Recreational Advisory
Committee Meeting October 8, 2002 canceled due to lack of a quorum.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
The board voted to conduct a Public Hearing to consider a zoning text amendment
to change machinery, equipment, supplies, and motor vehicles from a Conditional
Use to a Use Not Permitted in the Central Business District, following a motion
made by Commissioner Kelly, and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes.
Motion carried. The Public Hearing was set for November 18, 2002 at 7:00 p.m.
The board approved the preliminary subdivision plat for Roland Gilliam,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/ PERSONNEL, G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 9:20 p.m. The board reconvened regular
session at 9:50 p.m. There was no action taken. 
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:51 p.m.
________________________      ________________________
Melissa Adams Carter, Town Clerk      Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 8, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 8, 2002
8:00 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Friday
November 8, 2002 at 8:00 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located at
4396 Hwy 15/501 in Carthage.
   The purpose of the meeting was to discuss and take action concerning the
possible sale of the old fire department located at 102 S.   McNeill Street in
Carthage; discuss and possible action – legal matter concerning possible
lawsuit with Klaussner Furniture Company; discuss and possible action
concerning survey at Nick’s Creek.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, and Town Clerk
Melissa A. Carter.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood began discussion concerning the offer to
purchase the old fire department building received from Richard Edelman. The
offer was in the amount of $95,000.00. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton asked if Carol
would inquire to see if the buyer would be willing to pay all closing costs,
including preparation of the deed. Carol is to check to see if the town is
exempt from paying the revenue stamp fees.
   There was further discussion concerning the revenue that was to be realized
from the sale of this property. Town Manager Cleetwood remarked because of
Governor Easley withholding reimbursements due the town, the only way to
balance the budget this fiscal year was to include the potential revenue from
the sale of the old fire station in the budget.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton excused himself from the meeting, due to a prior
commitment, remarking that he was in favor of the board accepting the offer to
purchase the old fire station from Richard Edelman, in the amount of
$95,000.00.
   The board accepted the offer to purchase the old fire station from Richard
Edelman, in the amount of $95,000.00, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board gave Town Manager Carol Cleetwood the authority to execute the
necessary paperwork needed in order to sell the old fire department building,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board approved using funds generated from the sale of the timber at
Nick’s Creek to pay to have the property at Nick’s Creek surveyed, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   The board gave the go ahead to have Town Manager Carol Cleetwood instruct
the Town Attorney Doug Gill to file a lawsuit against Klaussner Furniture
Company for the fraudulent representation of the condition of the roof at the
time the town purchased the new municipal building, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:25 a.m.
__________________________         ______________________________
Melissa Adams Carter, Town Clerk         Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 18, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
NOVEMBER 18, 2002
The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday November
18, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Lany Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Sam
Kelly, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Carol sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Officers Robert
Caulk, and Neal Flinchum, Planning Board members Vernon Kelly, and Ron Mohr.
Concerned citizens present were Roland & Nancy Gilliam, Loretta Mohr, Jean
Prickett, Helen Mohan, Kay Davis, Susan Smith, Jean Bennett, and John Chappell,
fkom the Pilot Newspaper.
Special guests included; Greg, Nancy, and Murphy Pilson.
I.    CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 P.m
II.    INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.    PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Murphy Pilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.    PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Music by Greg and Murphy Pilson. Chief McKenzie introduced new Patrol Officer
Neal Flinchurn to the Carthage Board of Commissioners.
V.    PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:08 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was to hear discussion on and consider a Zoning Text Amendment
to change machinery, equipment, supplies, and motor vehicle sales to a use not
permitted in the Central Business District. Several citizens spoke concerning
the matter, remarking that they were against the sale of above referenced items
in the Central Business District and they were in favor of the Board of
Commissioners amending the Zoning Text to disallow the sale of these items.
Commissioner Lapping reaffirmed that he was still in support of the initial
change to allow machinery, equipment, supplies, and motor vehicle sales. He was
not in favor of changing to a use not permitted. Mayor Caddell closed the
Public Hearing at 7:24 p.m. Commissioner Kelly made a motion to change
machinery, supplies, equipment, and motor vehicle sales to a use not permitted
in the Central Business District. Commissioner Fields seconded. 3 ayes. 1nay.
Motion carried. Commissioner Lapping voted nay.
   B.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:25 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was to consider a fee and rate schedule amendment -elimination
of the 2,000-gallon minimum allowance for sewer. Customers would be charged for
sewer beginning with the fust gallon used. There was some discussion concerning
the upcoming budget for the FY 2003-2004. It was noted that the elimination of
the 2,000-gallon minimum allowance for sewer would greatly improve the revenue
for sewer. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:33 p.m. The Board of
Commissioners voted to pass the sewer fee and rate schedule amendment,
eliminating the 2,000-gallon minimum, to be effective January 1,2003, following
a motion made by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Mayor Pro-Te~n Walton.
All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping, ancl seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting October 21, 2002
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting November 8, 2002
   C.   Budget Amendment #1
   D.   Budget Amendment #2
VII.   TOWN MANAGER'S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
The board decided to cancel the December Regular Meeting, scheduled for
December 16, 2002, and change the January Regular Meeting date fiom Monday
January 20 to Tuesday January 21, 2003, due to the Martin Luther King Holiday,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried. The Town Clerk will advertise the above
referenced changes in the Pilot newspaper.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board and the Carthage Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee did
not meet in November.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro- Tem commended Town Manager Carol Cleetwood on the recent article
concerning her role as Town Manger in the Institute of Government Publication.
Mayor Caddell remarked about the overwhelming cooperation fiom the Town of
Southern Pines and the hard work of the town of Carthage employees, during the
recent drought.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell spoke concerning the "Dark Park". He presented Mayor Caddell and
Commissioner Lapping with "Dark Ranger" cards for their support of the project.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL, G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 8:06 p.m.
The board reconvened their regular session at 8:44 p.m
There was no action taken.
The board voted to appoint Marvin Harner to the Carthage Planning Board, to
replace Bill Mackey, who recently resigned, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
NOVEMBER 18, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
NOVEMBER 18, 2002
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday
November 18, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sam Kelly, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Officers Robert
Caulk, and Neal Flinchum, Planning Board members Vernon Kelly, and Ron Mohr.
   Concerned citizens present were Roland & Nancy Gilliam, Loretta Mohr, Jean
Prickett, Helen Mohan, Kay Davis, Susan Smith, Jean Bennett, and John Chappell,
from the Pilot Newspaper.
   Special guests included; Greg, Nancy, and Murphy Pilson.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Murphy Pilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Music by Greg and Murphy Pilson. Chief McKenzie introduced new Patrol Officer
Neal Flinchum to the Carthage Board of Commissioners.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:08 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was to hear discussion on and consider a Zoning Text Amendment
to change machinery, equipment, supplies, and motor vehicle sales to a use not
permitted in the Central Business District. Several citizens spoke concerning
the matter, remarking that they were against the sale of above referenced items
in the Central Business District and they were in favor of the Board of
Commissioners amending the Zoning Text to disallow the sale of these items.
Commissioner Lapping reaffirmed that he was still in support of the initial
change to allow machinery, equipment, supplies, and motor vehicle sales. He was
not in favor of changing to a use not permitted. Mayor Caddell closed the
Public Hearing at 7:24 p.m.
Commissioner Kelly made a motion to change machinery, supplies, equipment, and
motor vehicle sales to a use not permitted in the Central Business District.
Commissioner Fields seconded. 3 ayes. 1 nay. Motion carried. Commissioner
Lapping voted nay.
   B.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:25 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was to consider a fee and rate schedule amendment – elimination
of the 2,000-gallon minimum allowance for sewer. Customers would be charged for
sewer beginning with the first gallon used. There was some discussion
concerning the upcoming budget for the FY 2003-2004. It was noted that the
elimination of the 2,000-gallon minimum allowance for sewer would greatly
improve the revenue for sewer. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:33
p.m.
The Board of Commissioners voted to pass the sewer fee and rate schedule
amendment, eliminating the 2,000-gallon minimum, to be effective January 1,
2003, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting October 21, 2002
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting November 8, 2002
   C.   Budget Amendment #1
   D.   Budget Amendment #2
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
The board decided to cancel the December Regular Meeting, scheduled for
December 16, 2002, and change the January Regular Meeting date from Monday
January 20 to Tuesday January 21, 2003, due to the Martin Luther King Holiday,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, and seconded by Commissioner
Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried. The Town Clerk will advertise the above
referenced changes in the Pilot newspaper.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board and the Carthage Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee did
not meet in November.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem commended Town Manager Carol Cleetwood on the recent article
concerning her role as Town Manger in the Institute of Government Publication.
Mayor Caddell remarked about the overwhelming cooperation from the Town of
Southern Pines and the hard work of the town of Carthage employees, during the
recent drought.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell spoke concerning the “Dark Park”. He presented Mayor Caddell and
Commissioner Lapping with “Dark Ranger” cards for their support of the project.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL, G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 8:06 p.m. The board reconvened their
regular session at 8:44 p.m. There was no action taken.
The board voted to appoint Marvin Hamer to the Carthage Planning Board, to
replace Bill Mackey, who recently resigned, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m.
___________________________       __________________________
Melissa Adams Carter, CMC Town Clerk    Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
DECEMBER 17, 2002
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
DECEMBER 17, 2002
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Tuesday
December 17, 2002 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located at
4396 Hwy 15-501 in Carthage.
   The purpose of the meeting was discussion and possible action concerning the
Forest Creek Dam.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioners Mike Waschsen and
Sam Kelly were absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, and Town Clerk Melissa
Carter.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:30 a.m.
   Mayor Caddell informed the board that the town had recently received
correspondence from Mr. Barton Tuck, from Forest Creek Golf Club, concerning
their application for a dam permit with the State. As part of the permitting of
the lake at Forest Creek, the Corp of Engineers has requested a letter from the
town not objecting to the issuing of the permit. Furthermore, the town was in
receipt of a letter from Mr. Fred Hobbs, from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates,
informing the town that Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates certifies in their
professional opinion that the lake at Forest Creek Golf Club will have no
adverse affects on the quality or quantity of the Town of Carthage’s water
supply. There was some discussion concerning Forest Creek having a minimum
release, as required by the State. Discussion followed concerning the town’s
application for a permanent dam. The board voted to hire Calvin Ross as dam
engineer, and proceed with the permanent dam application with the State,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board voted to have Mayor Caddell write a letter to Henry Wicker,
informing the Corp of Engineers that the town has no objections to the dam
project at Forest Creek, provided that Forest Creek Golf Club give written
promise to abide by the minimum release mandated by the State, during any
drought conditions, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting a 9:40 a.m.
________________________________      ___________________________
Melissa Adams Carter, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
2003 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 21, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 21, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Tuesday
January 21, 2003 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   The purpose of the meeting was to hold discussion and take possible action
concerning the purchase of used surplus North Carolina Highway Patrol vehicles,
and a workshop to discuss the North Carolina Rural Center Grant.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams-
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Philips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, John Eddy, from Eddy Engineering, P.C., Bill
Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, and from the Pilot newspaper reporter
John Chappell.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
   Chief McKenzie opened discussion concerning the possibility of the town
purchasing three used vehicles from the North Carolina Highway Patrol. Chief
McKenzie informed the board that he had recently looked at the surplus vehicles
along with Sammy and Bart. He reported that they were most impressed with the
appearance and condition of the vehicles. Chief McKenzie informed the board
that the town could save a considerable amount of money by purchasing these
used vehicles, instead of purchasing new ones. The cost to purchase three used
vehicles would be approximately $20, 000.00. The cost to purchase two new
vehicles would be approximately $52,000.00. Chief McKenzie impressed upon the
board that if the town agreed to the purchase of the surplus vehicles, time was
of the utmost importance, as these vehicles cannot be put on hold for anyone,
and are subject to purchase at any time.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that Linda had inquired with BB & T
Bank concerning the financing of the vehicles and they would be able to offer
an interest rate of 4.5%.
   After some discussion, the board approved the purchase of three surplus
vehicles from the North Carolina Highway Patrol following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Engineer John Eddy of Eddy Engineering, P. C. gave a presentation to the
board concerning the process of turning the temporary dam at Nick’s Creek into
a permanent dam. Mr. Eddy would do the necessary engineering and preparation
for the town to proceed with the permanent dam permit application. Mr. Eddy
remarked that he felt it would take a period of two to three months to complete
his phase of the project. Then the construction phase of the project would have
to be done. Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor informed the board the
construction phase should be done during the winter. Mr. Eddy reported that the
temporary dam permit was good for one year and can be extended, as needed. The
time frame in which to use the grant money from the North Carolina Rural Center
was two years, but could be extended if needed.
   There was some discussion concerning the expansion of the town reservoir, as
well as, the town permanently hooking up to the Southern Pines reservoir. Mr.
Bill Lester remarked that these were things that the town could move ahead
with, as they were separate from the dam project. It was the consensus of the
board to move forward with the town hooking up to the Southern Pines reservoir
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board agreed to have Mayor Caddell sign the contract with John Eddy of
Eddy Engineering, P.C., following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mr. Bill Lester presented the board with a 2003 Honors Award from the
American Council of Engineering Companies, for the Carthage Water Plant. The
award was given to the town in conjunction with Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates
for engineering excellence on the Carthage Water Plant.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the Special Meeting at 6:55 p.m.
_______________________________      ______________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk      Larry Caddell, Mayor
JANUARY 21, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 21, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Tuesday
January 21, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sam Kelly, Mike Waschsen, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams-
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Police Sgt. Bill Morley,
Police Corporal Robert Caulk, Police Corporal Kenneth Wilkes, Fire Chief Brain
Tyner, Planning Board members Vernon Kelly, Ron Mohr & Mrs. Mohr.
   Other interested citizens present were Mr. & Mrs. D.A. Fields, Stephen and
Jeanette Moore, Mr. & Mrs. Milton Dowdy, Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch &
Associates, and John Chappell from the Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Recognitions and reception was held for Sgt. Bill Morley recently promoted to
Detective/Sergeant, Patrolman Robert Caulk recently promoted to Corporal, and
Patrolman Kenneth Wilkes recently promoted to Corporal. Also recognized was
Town Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter, who recently received her Certified Municipal
Clerk designation form the International Institute of Municipal Clerks. The
board recessed for a 5-minute break during the reception.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
No public hearing was held.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting November 18, 2002
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting December 17, 2002
   C.   Budget Amendments #3, 4, 5
   D.   Budget Transfer #C
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning the request for a sewer
line from Stephen Moore. Mr. Moore is considering purchasing property located
on Bingham Street. The closest sewer line is on Vass Carthage Road. Mr. Moore
has agreed to pay the cost of running the sewer line across the town’s property
to the lot, as well as, the tap fees and the cost of a pump station. Mr. Moore
would like a letter from the town confirming that we will install the sewer
line on our property. The board approved the sewer line request, following a
motion made by Commissioner Kelly, and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The Town of Southern Pines recently adopted a proposed water agreement
at their December meeting. The Town of Southern Pines would like the Town of
Carthage to approve the water agreement. The board agreed to approve the
proposed water agreement, once several items were amended; 1, 6, and 10, (the
figures should agree), copy attached, which is and does become part of these
minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board tentatively set the date for the first budget workshop for FY
2003 – 2004 on February 6, 2003 at 8:30 a.m. to be held at the new municipal
building. Commissioner Fields is to check his schedule to confirm that he would
be able to attend the workshop.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board and the Carthage Parks and Recreation Advisory
Committee did not hold meetings in December or January.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping remarked that the Rotary Club and the Carthage High School
Class of 1951 had donated park benches for the Nancy Kiser Park. Mayor Caddell
informed the board that he felt that the town should have a plaque made for
George Denning for his donation of asphalt at the park, and invite him to a
regular meeting to present it to him.
Mayor Caddell spoke concerning recent code enforcement procedures. Mayor
Caddell remarked that he felt the board needed to study this issue, and
possibly come up with a more “personal touch”, in corresponding with citizens.
It was decided that Mayor Caddell, Commissioner Fields, and Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood would meet to study the current code enforcement procedures.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Mrs. D.A. Fields inquired about getting a copy of the Town Code of Ordinances.
Town Manager Cleetwood replied that the town keeps a copy for public view at
the Municipal building. Mr. Milton Dowdy thanked the board for the effort, and
work that has gone into the Needmore project, in which Phase II is almost
complete.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS / PERSONNEL, G.S. 143-318.11
(a) (1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 7:25 p.m. The purpose of the closed
session was to discuss the Klaussner lawsuit, and personnel. The board
reconvened their regular meeting at 8:24 p.m. There was no action taken
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
__________________________       _____________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC   Town Clerk    Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 7, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
FEBRUARY 7, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Friday
February 7, 2003 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located at
4396 Hwy 15-501 in Carthage.
   The purpose of the meeting was to hold a Budget Work/Shop – Budget Retreat
for the fiscal year 2003-2004.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter, Director of Public Works Sammy
Taylor, Street Superintendent Robbie Baker, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and
Fire Chief Brain Tyner.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:50 a.m.
   The board approved renovating the old town hall, renovations not to exceed
$10,000.00, and the work to begin immediately, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   After some discussion, the board approved the purchase of a Ford F150 pick-
up truck, a utility truck, and a John Deere lawn mower, if funds were available
in the FY 2003-2004 budget, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board spent the day reviewing the proposed items to be considered for
the FY 2003-2004 budget, copy attached, which is and does become part of these
minutes.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 4:00 p.m.
_________________________________      ______________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk       Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 7, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
FEBRUARY 7, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Friday
February 7, 2003 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located at
4396 Hwy 15-501 in Carthage.
   The purpose of the meeting was to adopt a Resolution Approving Financing
Terms for purchase of three used surplus North Carolina State Highway Patrol
vehicles.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem W.C Walton, Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Sam
Kelly, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Mayor Larry Caddell was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood and Finance Officer Linda
Phillips.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the meeting to order at 8:45 a.m.
   The Board adopted the Resolution Approving Financing Terms for the purchase
of three used surplus North Carolina Highway Patrol vehicles, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:50 a.m.
_____________________________         ______________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk      Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.Walton
MARCH 17, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 17, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Monday March
17, 2003 at 7;00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W. C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sam Kelly, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams-
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Police Auxiliary Officer
John Gibbons, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Planning Board Member Vernon Kelly, and
Town Employees Billy Rouse and Robbie Baker.
   Concerned citizens present were John Cleetwood, Geraldine Moore, Jeannette
Moore, Stephen Moore, Roger and Paulette Yarter, Robert Yarter, Bobby Plowman,
Dennis Carr, Alfred and Catherine Graham, Mr. & Mrs. Neil Wolfe, Alan Cagle,
and David McBurnett. Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates and John
Eddy from Eddy Engineering were also in attendance.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Walton led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mayor Caddell announced that the board had wished to present a plaque to George
Denning in appreciation for his generosity and time in paving the walking trail
at the Nancy Kiser Park; however, Mr. Denning was unable to attend the meeting.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood will contact Mr. Denning and present the plaque to
him. Police Chief Chris McKenzie presented certificates of appreciation to Town
Employees Robbie Baker and Billy Rouse for their effort and hard work in
installing equipment in the recently acquired state surplus patrol cars.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Caddell called the Public Hearing to order at 7:10 p.m. The purpose of
the Public Hearing was to hear comment on a request for a Conditional Use
Permit from Stephen Moore to build two triplex apartments on property located
on Bingham Street. Town Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter swore in the citizens who
wished to speak. Stephen Moore presented his plans for two triplex apartments
on property located on Bingham Street LRK # 7056. Mr. Moore had recently
divided the property into approximately two (2) half-acre lots. His plan was to
build one triplex to start with then later, complete the second. Each unit
would be 1201 sq. ft., three (3) units each, with a total construction of 3795
sq. ft. each building. The triplex units will be constructed of all brick. Mr.
Moore communicated that he owns other rental property in Carthage and receives
many calls for available rental property. Mr. Moore remarked that he felt there
was a great need that was not being met for rental property in Carthage. Mr.
Roger Yarter stated he had several concerns about this issue. One of his
concerns was the street. Mr. Yarter reported that it is very narrow, and
difficult for two cars to pass at the same time. He was concerned about the
safety of the road, with the additional traffic that six apartments would bring
to the neighborhood. Other concerns voiced by Mr. Yarter were the cost of
upgrading the sewer system, property tax values, and room for children to play.
Mr. Bobby Plowman remarked that he was supportive of growth and future
development in Carthage, however the town needed to consider what is best for
the neighborhood. Mr. Plowman communicated that the neighborhood was strictly
single-family homes, and he felt that it should remain as such. Mr. Plowman
further remarked that he was concerned that the street could not handle the
additional traffic. Mr. Dennis Carr informed the board that he had researched
this area before he purchased the property where he now resides. Mr. Carr
reiterated the sentiments of others who had spoke, remarking that the area was
strictly single-family homes, and he would not have purchased his property if
he had known there might be apartments located in the neighborhood. Mr. Carr
was also concerned about the safety of the street. Mr. Roger Yarter spoke
concerning the traffic issue, and property tax values. Mr. Yarter was concerned
because it was a quiet neighborhood, and he was worried that apartments would
bring disruptions to the serenity of the area. Mrs. Catherine Graham informed
the board that Mr. and Mrs. Earl Moore were very dear friends, however, she
could not support the idea of two triplex apartment buildings because the
street was inferior to other streets within the town. Mrs. Graham remarked that
the street did not have curbing, it is a sub-standard street paved over crush &
run, after a few houses were built. Mrs. Graham felt the street would not
support the traffic that six apartments would bring to the neighborhood. Mr.
Allan Cagle voiced his opinion that he felt the lots were not large enough for
the size buildings that were proposed. Mr. Cagle had concerns about the
traffic, as well. Mr. Alfred Graham indicated that he felt the proposed
buildings were too large for the two lot sizes. Traffic was a concern for Mr.
Graham also. Mr. Neil Wolfe commented that he was in support of growth and
development for the town, however, he felt there were too many issues that had
not been properly addressed, some of which were, drainage ditches, street
lighting, and curbing of the street. Mr. Wolfe indicated he thought the lots
were too small for the proposed construction. Mr. David McBurnett stated that
he was concerned about the traffic issue, as well as public safety.
Commissioner Fields and Commissioner Walton inquired about only having one
duplex. Mr. Moore replied that originally he had planned two duplex units, but
reconsidered it because he felt he would obtain the best use of the property by
constructing two triplex units. There was much discussion among the board
members. Commissioner Lapping made a motion to deny the request for a
conditional use permit from Stephen Moore and Commissioner Fields seconded. Mr.
Moore inquired about the possibility of building one triplex unit. Mayor
Caddell recommended that he talk with the neighbors first. After much
discussion it was decided to table the request for a conditional use permit,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Caddell adjourned the Public Hearing at
7:59 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting January 21, 2003
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting January 21, 2003
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting February 7, 2003
   D.   Minutes budget Retreat February 7, 2003
   E.   Budget Amendments #6, 7, 8
   F.   Resolution/Finance – Adopt Resolution Authorizing Sammy Taylor as
Primary Agent and Melissa Adams-Carter as Secondary Agent for the Ice Storm of
December 5, 2002 for FEMA and State Reimbursements
   G.   Approval of Disclaimer Statements for Use of Town Buildings, Park and/
or equipment
   H.   Fee Schedule Amendment
The board approved the purchase of a John Deere 1445 lawn mower, at a cost of
$15,491.16, town to be billed after the first of July, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried. This had been previously discussed at the Budget Retreat held on
February 7, 2003.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board adopted a Resolution for the Advertisement for Sealed Bids
for the Sale of Surplus Vehicles, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board approved the agreement with Rural Economic Development and
the Town of Carthage, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved the certification that the Town of Carthage will
participate in the FY 2003 Scattered Site Housing Program in Moore County,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. John Eddy of Eddy Engineering, P.C., presented his report on the Nick’s
Creek Dam project. Mr. Eddy outlined three alternatives; constructing a
permanent pool, temporary storage, and removing the temporary dam. Based on the
study prepared by Eddy Engineering, P.C., it is his recommendation that the
temporary storage alternative is the alternative that should be investigated
further at this time. The recommendation further stated that the temporary
storage alternative has less environmental impact and is the most likely to
receive the needed permits. Much discussion ensued between the board and Mr.
Eddy. It was decided to pursue the permanent alternative, with the possibility
of a meeting with the proper officials possibly being scheduled in the near
future.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Planning Board Meeting February 6, 2003, copy attached which is and does become
part of these minutes.  
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping mentioned having a reservation policy for the park,
specifically the large picnic shelter and the amphitheater.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 9:05 p.m. to discuss legal matters/
personnel. The board reconvened their regular meeting at 9:50 p.m. No action
was taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m.
_________________________      ______________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 22, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 22, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Tuesday April
22, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W. C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A quorum. Commissioner Sam
Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and
Police Lt. Bart Davis.
   Concerned citizens present were Tom Stewart, Clara Bowles, Michael Allen,
Robin Frye, O’Linda Williams, Leroy McDougal, Cora Watkins, Laura Bradley,
Gloria Mathews, Jack Caddell, Sr., Rev. Jerry Dowdy, Dorothy Phillips, Esther
Davis, Regina Matthews, Lester Bailey, Mary Kelly, Hattie Simonson, Ruth
McTillman, Lessie Person, Catherine Graham, Willie McAllister, David McBurnett,
Lynn McBurnett, Percy Degraffenreid, Willie Monroe, Doctor A. Fields, Kay
Boggs, and Irving Adams. Bill Lester form Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, and
John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper were also in attendance.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7.:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Caddell called the Public Hearing to order at 7: 05 p.m. The
purpose of the Public Hearing was the Needmore Community Development Block
Grant – Economic Development Close - Out. Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch &
Associates detailed the project accomplishments, reporting that 55 service
connections for sewer connections had been completed, 4 vacant, dilapidated
structures had been removed, and the additions of a bathroom facility to 1
house had been completed. Community Development Block Grant funds provided
$800,000 toward the town’s FY00 CDBG Infrastructure Project. These funds
provided the construction/improvements, as well as administrative and
engineering activities. The Town of Carthage contributed $60,000 from the
General Fund and $55,000 toward the waiver of tap fees in conjunction with the
FY00 CDBG Infrastructure Project. A few of the citizens present asked some
general questions. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:17 p.m.
   B.    Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:17 p.m. The purpose of
the Public Hearing was a request from Clara Bowles for a variance to construct
an 861 sq. ft. house on property located at 711 Pinecrest Street. The property
is zoned R-20 and the minimum heated living space required is 1200 sq. ft. Town
Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter swore in those present to speak. Mrs. Bowles
remarked that her son would be living in the house presently located at 711
Pinecrest. Mrs. Bowles explained that she would be sub-dividing off 20,000 sq.
ft. in order to build the 861 sq. ft. structure. Town Manager Carol Sparks
Cleetwood reported that all set back requirements could be met. There was no
opposition to the granting of a variance. Mayor Caddell closed the Public
Hearing at 7:20 p.m. The board unanimously approved a variance for Mrs. Clara
Bowles to construct an 861 sq. ft. home located at 711 Pinecrest Street in
Carthage, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:20 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was to Adopt an Ordinance to Amend Chapter 100 of the Carthage
Zoning Ordinance to establish the following; 1.) An Amendment to add “gunsmith”
as a listed use in the Table of Uses and to establish a definition for
“gunsmith”; 2.) An Amendment to add “Gunsmith” as a Conditional Use in the
Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size (RA-40) zoning
District. There was no one to speak concerning the proposed amendments to the
Zoning Ordinance. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:24 p.m. The
board unanimously adopted the Ordinance to Amend Chapter 100 of the Carthage
Zoning Ordinance as listed above, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields, and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:24 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was a request for a Conditional Use Permit from Michael Allen
residing at 5758 Glendon Carthage Road to have a home-based gunsmith business.
The property is located in the RA-40 Zoning District and a home-based gunsmith
business is listed as a conditional use. Town Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter swore
in Mr. Michael Allen. Mr. Allen briefly outlined his proposed gunsmith
business. The board asked that he not have any signage. Mr. Allen remarked that
it was his intention not to have any signs. He did not want any advertisement
concerning his home-based gunsmith business, due to the nature of the business.
There was no one else to speak concerning his request. Mayor Caddell closed the
Public Hearing at 7:27 p.m. The board unanimously approved the request for a
Conditional Use Permit from Michael Allen residing at 5758 Glendon Carthage
Road to have a home-based gunsmith business, per approval from the ATF,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:27 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was a request for a Conditional Use Permit from Annie C.   Frye
to place a mobile home on the property located at 832 Stage Road in Carthage.
The property is in the RA-40 Zoning District and mobile homes are a Conditional
Use. Town Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter swore in Ms. Robin Frye, who was
representing Mrs. Annie C. Frye. Ms. Frye explained the purpose for the
request, remarking that due to health problems, a family member needed to be
close by. They will subdivide off 40,000 sq. ft. for the mobile home. There was
no one else to speak. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:29 p.m. The
board unanimously approved the request for a Conditional Use Permit from Annie
C. Frye to place a mobile home on the property located at 832 Stage Road in
Carthage, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:29 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was a proposed change in the garbage collection resulting in
once a week pick-up instead of twice a week. BFI would provide 96-gallon “roll
out carts” for the storage and collection of normal “household garbage” and
refuse. Mayor Caddell referred to a cost analysis that had been posted for the
citizens to review. With the current contract with BFI that expires July 1,
2003, with 829 customers @ $12.65/mo., and revenue received from 829 customers
@ $8.00/mo., the town is presently losing $46,258.20 a year. A new negotiated
contract beginning July 1, 2003 with twice a week pick-up, the cost to the town
would be 829 customers @ $11.48/mo., the revenue realized would be 829
customers @ $8.00, the amount lost would be $34,619.04 a year. With a new
negotiated contract with once a week pick-up and BFI providing the 96 gallon
roll-out carts, the cost would be 829 customers @ $9.00/mo., with revenue
received from 829 customers @ $8.00/mo., the loss would decrease substantially
to only $9,948.00 a year. Mayor Caddell opened discussion among the citizens
that wished to speak. Kay Boggs voiced concern over the possible smell and
amount of trash that would be sitting for a week. She remarked that she
understood that the cost of doing business has risen for everyone. Lessie
Person asked what could be done to balance out the cost versus revenue. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that the town would have to raise the rate to
$9.00/mo. Ron Mohr inquired about pick-up on holidays. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood will check with BFI concerning the pick-up policy on holidays. Irving
Adams reported that he was not in favor of once a week pick-up, he liked the
twice a week pick-up. He stated he would rather the town raise the rate and
keep the pick-up the same. D. A. Fields remarked he was concerned about the
amount of garbage that would be sitting around for a week. There were several
citizens that were worried about the difficulty elderly or disabled person may
have in rolling out the carts to the street. Catherine Graham reported that the
large containers are very easy to roll out and are not heavy. No decision was
reached; the items of concern will be researched further. The overall consensus
was that the majority in attendance was in favor of the proposed change to once
a week pick-up. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:58 p.m. Mayor
Caddell remarked he had an item that needed to be placed on the Consent Agenda
for approval, a resolution commending the armed forces, copy attached, which is
and does become part of these minutes. The board approved adding the Armed
Forces Resolution, to the Consent Agenda, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting March 17, 2003
   B.   Budget Amendments #9, #10
   C.   Budget Transfer D
   D.   Proclamation Municipal Clerk’s Week April 27 – May 3, 2003
   E.   Armed Forces Resolution
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   After some discussion concerning the proposed contract with John Boaze,
Fish & Wildlife Associates, Inc. the board decided to renegotiate the proposed
contract, and to set a limit on the amount the town will pay for his services.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood to get in touch with Mr. Boaze and renegotiate the
contract.
   B.   After discussion concerning the request to use the Fire Department
training room from the U.S. Amateur Ball Room Dancers Association it was
decided not to allow them to use the Fire Department.
   C.   The board unanimously approved the easement for the Southern Pines
inter-connection, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded
by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   A budget workshop was set for the day of the Regular Meeting May 19,
2003 at 5 p.m.
   E.    Mayor Caddell reported that he had an item to add to the agenda, the
BB&T Trust for the care of the Mausoleum at the Cemetery. The board approved
taking over the trust at BB&T, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   The board approved the bid from Barney Cagle in the amount of $380.00
for the 1987 Dodge Van, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that at the February Budget
Retreat, the board had authorized $10,000.00 to be spent on the renovation of
the old town hall. Presently $8542.91 has been spent. The lowest bid for the
re-wiring received, was from Chisholm Electrical in Aberdeen, in the amount of
$4745.00. This puts the cost of the renovations over $3,287.91 the approved
amount of $10,000.00. There was some discussion concerning Chisholm Electrical
possibly billing the town for the work, after July 1, 2003. The board approved
the expense of $3,287.91 for the electrical work to be done on the old town
hall, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
remarked that she has had some inquiry into the possibility of a Pottery Museum
going in at the old town hall. The board instructed Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood to actively advertise the building for rent.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Planning Board Meeting April 10, 2003, and Carthage Historical Committee
Meeting March 10, 2003, copies attached, which are and do become part of these
minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields remarked that the enclosure at the Carthage Museum looks
wonderful.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 8:42 p.m. to discuss legal matters/
personnel. The board reconvened their regular meeting at 8:50 p.m. No action
taken.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:50 p.m.
____________________________      _____________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
MAY 19, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 19, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Workshop
on Monday May 19, 2003 at 4:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the Fire Service District tax rate
and Fire Department budget for FY 2003-2004 with members of the Fire Service
District Board, and to hold a Budget Workshop for the FY 2003-2004.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Samuel Kelly, Sherwood Lapping, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Public Works Director Sammy
Taylor, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Attorney Doug Gill. Members of the
Fire Service District Board present were, Steve Ingold, and Murdock Prevost.
Billy Maness and Dale Goforth were present from BFI to answer questions
concerning the proposed change in garbage pick-up.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 4:15 p.m.
   Mayor Caddell reported that several of the Fire Service District members who
had planned to attend this meeting had had unexpected emergencies and would not
be at this meeting. In fact they did not even have a quorum. Mayor Caddell
remarked that they would hold another meeting when more members of the Fire
Service District could be present. However, Town Attorney Doug Gill would speak
concerning his opinion on the arrangement between the town and the county for
fire protection in the fire service district. Mr. Gill explained that the
county imposes and collects the fire service district tax. The county is
obligated to use that money for providing fire protection to the district. The
county meets that obligation by contracting with the town to provide fire
protection for a fixed price. The town has no obligation to spend that money on
any particular thing or to account for the money. The only obligation the town
has is to provide fire protection to the fire service district. Mr. Gill
explained it is the same as contracting with someone to pave a driveway. The
contractor will do the job for a fixed price. No matter what the cost to the
contractor, he has no obligation to return any money to the homeowner as long
as he paved the driveway to the homeowner’s satisfaction. This is the same
principal. The town is free to do whatever it is legally able to do with the
money, including putting it directly into the general fund. The town’s only
obligation is to provide fire protection to the district. There was some
discussion between the board and Murdock Prevost and Steve Ingold. Mr. Gill
remarked that the responsibilities of the Fire Service District Board were
negotiation of the contract between the county and the town, and to make sure
the district is provided fire protection. Mr. Prevost asked about surplus money
that was left over at the end of the budget year. Mr. Gill replied that money
belongs to the town. The town is not obligated to spend it on the fire
department. Mayor Caddell informed the board that we will have another meeting
between now and the adoption of the Budget for FY 2003-2004, to clear up any
misconceptions the Fire Service District Board may have. It was discussed among
the board members to research the cost of a new tanker for the fire department
and to make a lump sum payment towards the new municipal building. This will be
discussed at a later time.
   Mr. Billy Maness and Mr. Dale Goforth spoke concerning the proposed change
in the garbage collection for the FY 2003-2004. Mr. Maness remarked that he
would like to keep the pick up on Monday. The only holiday that would affect
the pick-up of garbage was Christmas. If Christmas falls on a regular pick-up
day they would come the next day. If pick-up is affected by inclement weather,
they will pick-up as soon as they are able to. In most cases it is the next
day. Dale Goforth and Billy Maness discussed the process for delivering the
cans to the citizens. They will deliver the cans over a two or three day
period. They would like for Sammy to keep some extra cans so that when new
residents move in, he would have them available. Mr. Maness also explained that
the citizens would be given instructions along with the cans, because they will
have to place them in the same position for pick-up. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood asked about their policy for picking up for handicapped persons. Mr.
Maness remarked that would remain the same. Vacant homes would not receive a
can, only occupied residences. When a new person moves in they would receive a
can at that time. There was some discussion concerning the length of the
contract. Mr. Maness reported that BFI was investing a substantial amount of
money in purchasing the cans, and they needed to recoup the expense, so the
length of the contract had to be three years. Commissioner Fields asked what if
it wasn’t working out to the satisfaction of the town; they were stuck with a
three-year contract. Mr. Maness assured the board that if there were ever any
problems; they would do what ever was possible to fix them. The board voted to
approve the three-year contract with BFI, to have once a week pick-up, BFI to
supply the 96-gallon roll-out cans, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Next, the board moved on to discussion of the revenues versus expenses in
the proposed FY 2003-2004 budget. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood had proposed
that the board adopt a policy to implement impact fees and/or acreage fees.
After some discussion the board approve the recommended water/sewer impact fees
as presented, with the exception of instead of being referred to as acreage
fees, the fees would be per building lot, copy attached is and does become part
of these minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. This would become effective immediately, however any
one who has already presented plans for development with the town would not be
affected. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Caddell informed the board that there were five barns out at Little
River that belong the town. Mayor Caddell felt like the town should deed them
back to Little River, as they recently signed an easement for Southern Pines to
run water lines through the golf course property for the interconnection
between Southern Pines and the Town of Carthage. There was some discussion
among the board concerning this. It was finally decided to see if they would be
willing to give the town some land in order to have a public safety sub-station
or possibly a water tank, in the future if the need ever arose, in return for
deeding the barns back to Little River.
   The board went over the proposed budget, with much discussion concerning the
increases to the expenses. There was much discussion concerning lowering the
tax rate 2 cents to 45 cents. Finance Officer Linda Phillips stressed that this
proposed budget is bare bones; there simply isn’t any room to cut any where
else. There was discussion concerning the possibility of future development and
the revenue this would bring, as well as the lease of the old town hall
building. After discussion, the board approved contracting out with Hydro
Management to read the water/sewer meters monthly, beginning July 2003,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. There was some discussion concerning raising
the rent of the McDonald Building. The board discussed the sale of the timber,
as well as the replanting of the trees next year.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 6:40 p.m.
___________________________________      _____________________________
Melissa Adams-Cater, CMC Town Clerk       Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
MAY 19, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 19, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday May 19, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.   Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping, Samuel Kelly, and Mike Waschsen.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Planning
Board members Tom Mohan, and Vernon Kelly, and Director of Public Works Sammy
Taylor.
   Jeff Neubauer was present from Little River Golf Club, and from Land Design
Rodney Cole and Bob Koontz.
   Linda Lee from the Buggy Festival Committee was also in attendance.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Sam Kelly gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mayor Caddell announced that we had a distinguished guest present, Linda Lee
from the Buggy Festival Committee and that he had something very special to
present to her. Mayor Caddell presented Ms. Linda Lee with a plaque with the
Key to the Town of Carthage, remarking in all his years of serving as Mayor,
the town had never presented the key to anyone. The plaque thanked Linda Lee
for her dedication and devotion to the Buggy Festival. Mayor Caddell commended
Ms. Lee for her tireless energy and hard work on the Buggy Festival. Ms. Linda
Lee thanked the board and remarked that the presentation of the key to the town
meant so much to her.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting April 22, 2003.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. The board
approved the proposed contract with John Boaze, Fish & Wildlife Associates,
with a cap of $5000, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
Jeff Neubauer, from Little River Golf Club, Rodney Cole and Bob Koontz from
Land Design presented the preliminary/final plat and plans for the proposed
Clubhouse, two 16-unit condominium buildings, and building lots for single
family homes. The Planning Board has met and has recommended to the board the
approval of the plans, as presented. After a brief question and answer session,
the board voted to approve the plans, as presented following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Planning Board Meeting May 1, 2003, and Carthage Historical Committee Meeting
April 7, 2003 and April 24, 2003, copies attached, which are and do become part
of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping commented he wanted to commend the members of the Buggy
Festival Committee for an outstanding Buggy Festival, and commented that the
enclosed porch at the Carthage Museum looked wonderful
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
There were none.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)(1)
(6):
The board moved into closed session at 7: 18 p.m., following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Kelly. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board reconvened their regular meeting at 7:19 p.m. Action taken:
the board approved allowing the 1995 Chrysler Cirrus to be sold to Johnny
Taylor, for $1500 worth of labor, instead of cash, (23.08 hours of labor);
contract to be drawn up by Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, and will be on file at
Town Hall, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 7:20 p.m.
__________________________      _____________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JUNE 24, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
JUNE 24, 2003
5:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Workshop
on Tuesday June 24, 2003 at 5:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   The purpose of the special meeting was to discuss the purchase of new fire
truck with the Carthage Fire Service District Board, and to hold a budget
workshop for the FY 2003 –2004.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.Walton, Commissioners
Mike Waschsen, Sherwood Lapping, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioner Sam
Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and
Carthage Fire Service District Board Members; Roy Harbin, Jody Hall, Steve
Ingold, and Scotty Scott.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 5:06 p.m.
   Mayor Caddell opened discussion concerning the town purchasing an additional
fire truck in this next budget year 2003 – 2004. Fire Chief Brian Tyner had
received two quotes; one for a 2-door tanker for $124,000 received from Fouts
Bros. Inc. and another for a 4-door tanker for $210,000 received from NAFECO of
NC. There was much discussion concerning the need for a tanker with additional
room for manpower. Fire Chief Brian Tyner explained that he got a quote for a
larger sized truck with an additional three more seats in order to facilitate
keeping personnel together and eliminating so many personal vehicles at the
scene of a fire. Additionally, he felt the town should look towards future
expansion. There was much discussion among the board members concerning the
cost versus benefit of purchasing a larger size truck.
   There was discussion among the Fire Service District Board Members to
concentrate on lowering the ISO rating for the district by installing dry
hydrants, and purchasing the truck from Fouts Bros. Inc. and spending an
additional $5,000 for a 1000 gal. Pump. The FY Budget for 2003 – 2004 had money
allocated for the purchase of dry hydrants. Mayor Caddell instructed Fire Chief
Brain Tyner to order those and set up getting them installed as quickly as
possible after July 1, when the new budget is in effect.
   After much discussion, it was decided to purchase the 2-door tanker, with a
1000 gal. pump, and some additional equipment, with a cap of $150,000 to be
placed on the cost. Mayor Caddell called for a vote from the Fire Service
District Board to approve such, with a time limit to be placed on the delivery
date of said truck, all ayes. Motion carried. One half of the amount of the
cost of purchasing the truck to be paid in the FY Budget 2003 –2004, and the
other half to be financed until FY Budget 2004 –2005.
   Fire Service District Board Member Roy Harbin asked that a financial
statement on the Fire Department budget be given to the board on a monthly
basis. Mayor Caddell instructed Finance Officer Linda Phillips to mail a copy
of the financial statement to Board Chairman Scotty Scott monthly. Mr. Scott
will be responsible for making copies and distributing to other board members.
   Mayor Caddell thanked the Fire Service District Board Members for attending.
   Mayor Caddell opened discussion of the proposed budget for FY 2003 – 2004.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood went over the increases to some of the
expenditures such as health insurance, workers compensation, and property/
liability insurance.
   There was discussion concerning the re-evaluation of property values,
conducted this year by Moore County. Discussion followed concerning the
proposed tax rate of $ .42.
   Finance officer Linda Phillips remarked that presently we have a fund
balance equal to approximately 57.60%, with the full amount of the purchase of
a new fire truck it will drop to 45.35%. This is lower than the average
municipality, of equal size, which is 71.31%.
   Mayor Caddell opened discussion on possible future revenue sources, and
economic development. It was noted that the proposed budget for FY 2003 – 2004
was presented balanced without cutting services or without cutting positions.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 6:50 p.m.
________________________________      ____________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JUNE 24, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 24, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Tuesday June 24, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Mike Waschsen, Sherwood Lapping, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioner Sam
Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and
Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Concerned citizens present were Dillard Stone, James Stone, John Cleetwood,
Bobby Plowman, and Steve Brown. John Chappell form the Pilot Newspaper was also
in attendance.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Ronnie Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
There were none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   FY Budget 2003 – 2004
      Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing on the proposed budget for FY
2003 – 2004 at 7:06 p.m. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reviewed the proposed
expenditures and revenues for the budget year. Mayor Caddell spoke concerning
the impact fees adopted for the water and sewer funds, as well as, the change
in garbage collection to once a week pick-up, which will save the town a
considerable amount of money. Mayor Caddell reported that due to the Moore
County re-evaluation the town has lowered the tax rate from $ .47 per $100 of
valuation to $ .42 per $100 of valuation, without cutting any services or
personnel. Mayor Caddell asked if there was anyone who wished to speak
concerning the proposed budget. There was not anyone present who spoke. Mayor
Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:15 p.m.
The board approved adding item E. Resolution Approving Financing Terms for the
Public Works Department Pick-up Trucks, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the items listed below, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting May 19, 2003.
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting May 19, 2003.
   C.   Budget Transfers E, F.
   D.   Budget Amendments # 11, #12, #13.
   E.   Resolution Approving Financing Terms for Public Works Department Pick-
up Trucks.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board unanimously adopted the proposed FY 2003 -2004 Budget,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board unanimously approved installing the water tap for INFOTEC,
LLC, at no charge, in return they will provide training classes for backflow
prevention and cross connection for town employees, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. We will install the
meter only, they must pay all other associated costs. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board adopted the Resolution to Approve the Moore County Solid
Waste Management Plan Update, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved the agreement with NC DOT concerning the Pump
Station located at DOT Drive, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board unanimously approved appointing Brain Tyner as Fire Chief for
the Town of Carthage for the FY 2003 –2004, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
Planning Board did not meet in June. Carthage Historical Committee Meeting June
2, 2003, copies attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Lapping spoke about the 4th of July Parade. Commissioner Lapping
announced the Carthage Rotary Citizen of the Year would be awarded to Mrs.
Catherine Graham, Clerk of Court. Commissioner Fields remarked that Planning
Board Chairman Tom Mohan was not well and perhaps the town could send some
flowers. Mayor Caddell advised that Commissioner Sam Kelly was not well and
that the town should do the same for Sam. Commissioner Fields informed the
board that the pool is in need of care. The grass and weeds need to be mowed.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
Pilot newspaper reporter John Chappell remarked that he is doing a story on the
pool.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6): 
The board went into closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping. The board went into closed session at 7:40 p.m. The board reconvened
their regular meeting at 9:45 p.m. There was no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:45 p.m.
___________________________________      ________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JULY 21, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 21, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday July 21, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Sam
Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy
Taylor, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Concerned citizens present were Mr. & Mrs. Stephen Moore, Mrs. Geraldine
Moore, Juliet King, Mr. & Mrs. Alfred Graham, Allan Cagle, Dennis Carr, Bobby
Plowman, Mr. & Mrs. Neil Wolfe, and M.G. Boyette, III.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Barbara Davis had asked to be placed on the agenda to speak to the board
concerning garbage pick-up. She was not present to speak at the meeting.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Request for a Conditional Use Permit from Stephen Moore to build a
duplex on property located on Bingham Street, LRK #7056. Mayor Caddell opened
the Public Hearing at 7:04 p.m. Town Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter swore in those
citizens wishing to speak. Mr. Stephen Moore addressed the board concerning his
proposed plans to build one duplex and later, one single family dwelling on the
proposed property on Bingham Street. The property has not yet been subdivided
into two lots. The board reviewed the proposed plans that Mr. Moore submitted.
Discussion began with Catherine Graham speaking against the proposed plans for
the duplex. Mrs. Graham remarked that she did not want to see the character of
the neighborhood changed. She felt the proposed duplex would adversely change
the integrity of the neighborhood. Alfred Graham spoke, referring to the
original application of two triplexes. Mr. Graham remarked that originally, Mr.
Moore told him that his intention was to build one duplex. Mr. Graham was not
in favor of the proposed duplex, because of how Mr. Moore handled the proposal
last time. Mrs. Graham questioned whether the whole property would be subject
to the conditional use permit. She inquired about this because the property was
not divided yet. She informed the board that she had spoken to Attorney Doug
Gill and he had stated that the conditional use permit follows the land. Mayor
Caddell replied that the property would have to be divided. Neil Wolfe spoke
against the issuance of a conditional use permit. Allan Cagle spoke against the
conditional use permit. Dennis Carr spoke against the conditional use permit,
as well as Bobby Plowman. Stephen Moore addressed the board and citizens,
remarking that if he had known this was how they all felt he would have
withdrawn his application. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:13 p.m.
The board voted to deny the request for a conditional use permit from Stephen
Moore to build a duplex on the property located on Bingham Street, based on the
following finding of fact; the proposed use will be detrimental to the use of
or development of adjacent properties or other neighborhood uses, and the
proposed use was not in harmony with the surrounding area or conformance with
the comprehensive plan, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields, and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the items listed below, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting June 24, 2003.
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting June 24, 2003.
   C.   Budget Amendments #14, #15, #16.
   D.   Budget Transfer G.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. There will be an
“open house” at the Old Town Hall on Sunday August 17, 2003 from 2 p.m. – 4
p.m.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   After discussion with citizens Juliet King and M.G. Boyette,
representing the Carthage Swimming Pool Association, the board voted to turn
the water on for the pool; allow the pool association to pay $400.00 towards
the delinquent bills owed the town; work out satisfactory arrangements for
payment on the past due balances, as well as payment on current bills billed in
the future, with Town Manager Carol Cleetwood. Furthermore, they are to present
an agreement for Carol to accept concerning the general care and upkeep of the
pool area on a year round basis, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board approved the Amendment to Section 9: Article VI of the Town
of Carthage Personnel Policy, adding policy on leave for town employees with
reaction to small pox counter measures, after clarification was made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton on adding the wording “town employees” to the proposed
amendment, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved the Amendment to Section 1: Article VI, of the Town
of Carthage Personnel Policy, deleting previous wording and adding that any
employee with more than 240 hours of accumulated vacation leave, shall have the
excess accumulation vacation leave converted to the sick leave balance, so that
only 240 hours of vacation leave is carried forth to January 1 of the next
calendar year, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields, and seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved the Amendment to Chapter 41: Section 41.06 of the
Garbage Ordinance, deleting previous wording and adding; the occupant of every
building or premises where garbage and refuse does or may exist shall use
ninety-five (95) gallon containers provided by BFI. All containers shall be
kept in a reasonably clean condition, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board approved the Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate A
Petition Received from Gladys L. Barker Under G.S. 160A-58.1, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in July. The Carthage Historical
Committee did not meet in July.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Lapping remarked that his observation of the new garbage pick-up
is that it is working very well. Commissioner Waschsen asked that Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood thank Mr. Will Garner with DOT for his prompt response in
installing signs up at the entrance to the new municipal building for the Fire
Department. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood informed the board this had already
been done.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
Mr. Alfred Graham asked for clarification on when the board has a motion on the
floor and the Mayor asks for discussion, can a citizen discuss the motion?
Mayor Caddell replied that the discussion of a motion on the table is only for
the Board of Commissioners. The agenda has time set aside for comments form the
public, in which citizens can discuss any thing they deem appropriate. Mr.
Graham remarked that the pool was an eyesore. Mr. Dennis Carr inquired about
extra garbage other than the (95) gallon pick-up. Mayor Caddell responded that
BFI has always been very good about this, they will pick up extra garbage, as
long as it is not abused.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143.318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into a closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. The board moved into closed session at 7:55
p.m. The board reconvened their regular meeting at 10:00 p.m. There was no
action taken.
XIV.   AJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 10:00 p.m.
_______________________________      ________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JULY 30, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JULY 30, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Wednesday July
30, 2003 at 8:00 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building in Carthage.
   The purpose of the meeting was to discuss and take action concerning the
water/sewer tap fees for the Little River Golf Club Project, and to award the
bid for the Fire Truck tanker.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioners Mike Waschsen and
Sam Kelly were absent.
   Others present were Town Clerk Melissa Adams-Carter and Director of Public
Works Sammy Taylor.
   Mayor Caddell opened the meeting at 8:00 a.m.
   Discussion began concerning the water/sewer tap fees for the town. Director
of Public Works Sammy Taylor reported to the board that after discussion with
Little River Golf Club General Manager Jeff Neubaugher, he understands that the
proposed use for the two sixteen (16) unit condominiums is more or less like a
hotel. They will not be used for fulltime residential use, therefore, they are
asking that they not be required to install and pay for thirty two (32) water/
sewer meters. They are requesting that just one master meter be installed for
each condominium building and the clubhouse, for a total of three (3) meters.
   The board approved allowing Little River Golf Club to install one meter per
building for the condominiums and clubhouse, for a total of three water & sewer
meters, at a cost of $6000.000 plus the cost of the meters, and the two (2)
condominium buildings to be charged a minimum of $9.00 for water and $9.00 for
sewer per unit for each unit for a total of thirty two (32) units plus water/
sewer usage, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board rescinded a motion made at the May 19, 2003 Special Meeting,
concerning the impact fees for the Town of Carthage, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   The board approved adopting impact fees of $250.00 per residential building
lot, $500.00 per commercial building lot, to be effective May 19, 2003, and to
include any construction that had already presented plans for development with
the town, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board moved that the impact fees with go into a special enterprise fund,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board awarded the bid to Fousts Bros. Inc. for a 3000-gallon tanker, as
per specifications, in the amount of $142,000.00, financing one half of the
payment, financing terms to be made after Finance Officer Linda Phillips
returns to work, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board voted to authorize the expenditures to allow for the board members
to attend the NCLM in Winston Salem in the fall, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:35 a.m.
________________________________      ______________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
AUGUST 18, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 18, 2003
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday August 18, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioners Sam Kelly and Mike
Waschsen were absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, Volunteer Firefighters Trey Sims, Steven Barker, Mike
Waschsen, Jr. and Steven Brown.
   Distinguished quest present was Andy Honeycutt from Progress Energy, and
concerned citizens present were Bobby Plowman, and John Chappell from the Pilot
Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
The board approved the following amendments/additions to the agenda, following
a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All
ayes. Motion carried;
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES
   A.   Andy Honeycutt – Progress Energy – Change to item B.
Add item A. Fire Chief Brian Tyner- Presentation of awards.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   D.   Change September Regular Meeting from Monday September 15 to Tuesday
September 16, 2003.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES
   A.   Fire Chief Brian Tyner spoke concerning the events that led up to a
heroic rescue made by Volunteer Firefighters Trey Sims and Steven Barker on
August 5, 2003. The Carthage area had experienced a tremendous amount of
rainfall, within a short period of time on August 5, 2003 and Bethlehem Church
Road was flooded. The Carthage Fire Department was dispatched and came upon a
car swept up and immersed in the creek, with a man hanging onto a tree.
Volunteer Firefighters Trey Sims and Steven Barker selflessly and heroically
rescued the man. Chief Tyner proudly presented both Trey Sims and Steven Barker
with individual plaques honoring them for their actions on that day. Mayor
Caddell spoke to them both, remarking that the Fire Department as well as the
Police Department do a wonderful job protecting our citizens and we greatly
appreciate everything they do. Commissioner Lapping voiced the same, remarking
that the residents of Wahala Drive wished to thank the Fire Department for all
their help with the recent abundance of rain, which caused a dangerous
situation on Wahala Drive.
   B.   Mayor Caddell introduced Andy Honeycutt of Progress Energy who began a
presentation entitled “When the Lights Go Out”. Mr. Honeycutt addressed the
fundamentals of how energy is delivered, remarking that the system operates
approximately 99.6% of the time, and that they are constantly in pursuit of
improving their service and customer relations. Mr. Honeycutt spoke concerning
the ice storm of 2002, detailing how Progress Energy prepares for a storm, and
how they prioritize restoration of power. Hospitals are #1, with emergency
shelters and emergency communications following next, then local government
critical facilities, mass food and lodging facilities, nursing homes and
assisted living, followed by the most customers they can restore the fastest.
One important item is that everyone who experiences an outage needs to call it
in to the power company so that they can get you into the system. Because of
various reasons, just because your neighbor has called, does not guarantee that
the power company will know that you are without power. Everyone needs to call
in their individual outages. Furthermore, Mr. Honeycutt explained that after a
mass outage such as the ice storm, crews will be riding the areas, conducting
damage assessment. Mr. Honeycutt stressed that customer service is the number
one priority as well as an improved open dialog with the communities.
Commissioner Lapping inquired about better communication with the radio
stations, as far as more detail on power restoration for local areas. Mr.
Honeycutt replied that Progress Energy has begun a dialog with the radio
stations to improve communication and work towards better solutions. Mayor
Caddell commended Mr. Honeycutt and Progress Energy for the excellent
cooperation and customer service during the ice storm of last year. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood commended Mr. Honeycutt for his help recently when
lightening hit the Municipal Building twice, within a few days. Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton asked if Mr. Honeycutt could investigate the status of looping Pinecrest
Street, which is always off the longest, as well as Summit Street, when power
goes out. Mr. Honeycutt remarked he would look into those issues. Commissioner
Fields inquired about under ground lines. Mr. Honeycutt remarked that the
problem with replacing present lines with under ground lines is the cost. It is
prohibitive, costing roughly $15,000.00 a customer. Another issue with under
ground lines are they are more difficult to repair when there is an outage.
With above ground lines the crews can identify where the problems are much
quicker than with under ground lines. Mayor Caddell thanked Mr. Honeycutt for
his presentation.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Approval of Minutes Regular Meeting July 21, 2003.
   B.   Approval of Minutes Special Meeting July 30, 2003.
   C.   Personnel Policy Amendment.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS: 
   A.   The board accepted Gladys Barker - Certificate of Sufficiency from Town
Clerk.
   B.   The board approved the Resolution Fixing the Date of the Public Hearing
for the Gladys Barker Annexation as Tuesday September 16, 2003 at 7:00 p.m.,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   There was discussion concerning two parcels in the Needmore section
that Town Manager Carol Cleetwood was unable to obtain signatures from the
property owners. One parcel was heir property, with numerous heirs, the other
parcel was owned by a man who lives out of his vehicle. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood informed the board that they could begin involuntary annexation
proceedings for those two parcels, in order to keep the annexation contiguous
with the town limits. Discussion ensued, with Commission Fields voicing that he
was totally against a forced annexation. Much discussion. Again, Commissioner
Fields informed the board he was against any forced annexation. The board
approved beginning involuntary annexation proceedings for those two parcels,
followed by a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. Two ayes. One nay. Commissioner Fields voted nay. Motion carried.
   Needmore Annexation – Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate
Certificate of Sufficiency was approved following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved changing the September Regular Meeting date From
Monday September 15 to Tuesday September 16, 2003 at 7:00 p.m., following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Copy of the Planning Board Minutes August 7, 2003, are attached, which are and
do become part of these minutes. The Carthage Historical Committee did not meet
in August.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton advised that he noticed many people leaving their trash
cans out at the street. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton indicated he felt that we needed
to look into this issue. It was noted that a reminder can be put on the water
bills this month, to remind citizens to remove the trash cans from the street
after pick-up. Commissioner Fields remarked about the swimming pool, it has not
been mowed or cleaned up. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood will call the swimming
pool association. Commissioner Lapping opened discussion concerning the recent
“open house” at the “Old Town Hall”. Commissioner Lapping would like to see a
nonprofit organization take over the care and upkeep of the building, as well
as the rental, for social functions for the community. Mayor Caddell
recommended that a committee be formed to look into this issue and make a
recommendation at the next regular meeting. Possible committee members
recommended were Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, Commissioner Lapping, Betsy Hamer, and
John Chappell. Mayor Caddell informed the board that Commissioner Sam Kelly had
recently been hospitalized, but was home resting comfortable now.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
_______________________________ ________________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 16, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2003
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Tuesday September 16, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. Commissioner Sam Kelly was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Brain Tyner, Police
Lt. Bart Davis, Planning Board Member Vernon Kelly, and town employees Robbie
Baker, and Milton “T” Dowdy.
   Also in attendance was Mr. Bob Stafford of Stafford Land Co., Inc. and
concerned citizen Bobby Plowman.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Larry Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Mayor Caddell announced that the Board of Commissioners was presenting the
employee of the month for the month of August to town employee Milton “T”
Dowdy. Mayor Caddell presented the board with a plaque to be hung in the lobby
at the municipal building with Milton’s name engraved for the month of August.
Everyone congratulated Milton.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the public hearing at 7:05 p.m. The public hearing
was concerning a request from Mr. Bob Stafford of Stafford Land Co. Inc. to re-
zone approximately 61.5 acres, LRK #5489 from TBD “Thoroughfare Business” to R-
10 “Residential 10,000 sq. ft. lots”. Mr. Stafford addressed the board,
concerning his preliminary plan for developing 158 lots on the proposed
property. Mr. Stafford reported he had left approximately 8-10 acres as open
space for greenways and recreational areas. Included in his plan were three
recreational areas within the proposed subdivision. Mr. Stafford remarked that
he was showing a twenty-foot wooded buffer between the proposed residential
development and the 10 acres that would remain zoned thoroughfare business.
Only a ten-foot buffer is required. Commissioner Fields inquired about a buffer
around the rest of the property, particularly the back portion of the property.
Mr. Stafford replied that normally they would handle buffers for the balance of
the property in restrictive covenants and a homeowners association.
Commissioner Lapping asked if Mr. Stafford could include a twenty-foot buffer
in a deed restriction for lots 21-51, which run along the back portion of the
proposed development. Mr. Stafford replied that he would have no problem with
having a deed restriction concerning a twenty- foot buffer for the lots that
run along the back portion of the property. There was some discussion
concerning a possible price range for the new homes. Mr. Stafford informed the
board he was considering the range of $130,000 to $150,000, but that is subject
to change, depending on the sales market. Mr. Stafford was asked about the 10
acres that would remain zoned thoroughfare business. Mr. Stafford remarked that
he had no plans at the moment for any development for that portion of the
property. He would wait and see how the sales and construction of the new homes
proceeded before making plans for commercial development. Planning Board member
Vernon Kelly addressed the board concerning the Planning Board meeting held
September 4, 2003. Mr. Kelly reported that the Planning Board recommends the
approval of the re-zoning of the proposed property. Mayor Caddell closed the
Public Hearing at 7:25 p.m. The board unanimously approved the request to re-
zone 61.5 acres LRK # 5489 from TBD “Thoroughfare Business District” to R-10
“Residential 10,000 sq. ft. lots”; with the stipulation that there will be a
deed restriction on the back portion of building lots, that a twenty-foot
buffer be kept, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Mayor Caddell opened the public hearing concerning the request from
Gladys Barker for a contiguous annexation at 7:25 p.m. There was no opposition
to the proposed annexation. Mayor Caddell closed the public hearing at 7:26
p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Approval of Minutes Regular Meeting August 18, 2003.
   B.   Approval of Budget Transfer #A.
   C.   Approval of Budget Amendment #1.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board unanimously approved the adoption of an Ordinance to Extend
the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for the Contiguous Annexation of
the Gladys Barker property located at 6090 Glendon Carthage Road, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board accepted the Needmore Annexation Certificate of Sufficiency.
   C.   The board adopted the Resolution Fixing the Date of Public Hearing
concerning the Needmore Annexation, to be held October 20, 2003, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Decision on Stafford Land Co., Inc. request for re-zoning had
previously been approved.
   E.   The board appointed Mayor Larry Caddell as the primary delegate and
Commissioner Sherwood Lapping as the alternate for voting delegate at the NCLM
Annual Conference in Winston Salem in October.
   F.   After discussion, the board decided to deny the request from Nelson
Patterson of the Carthage Chamber of Commerce to end the agreement with the
town to pay for the care and up-keep of the “Welcome to Carthage” signs.
Presently the Carthage Chamber pays the town $550.00 a year. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood is to talk to Mr. Patterson on behalf of the board, informing him of
the decision to hold the Chamber to the agreement and to offer assistance in
recruiting new members for the Carthage Chamber.
   G.   The Amendment of Fee Schedule to include a deposit for customers having
garbage service only, was tabled, until Town Manager could research the Water/
Sewer Ordinance. Commissioner Lapping informed the board he thought the town
had adopted a policy, in which any resident who has a water line running along
their property, were required to hook-up to the line and pay the minimum
monthly fee, regardless of whether they use the water or not. Town Manager to
research this and report back to the board.
   H.   After much discussion, it was decided to open the “Old Town Hall” up as
a “Community Building” available for citizens to rent for special occasions,
for $200.00 a day; for a trail period of six months. During that time if
someone wishes to lease the property on a more permanent lease agreement, then
the town would have the option of doing so. After the six month period the
board would review how the rentals of the building where working out, following
a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner Lapping.
All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Copies of the Planning Board Minutes September 4, 2003 and Carthage Historical
Committee Meeting August 26, 2003 are attached, which are and do become part of
these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields stated that he thought the town should instruct the
Planning Board to review the Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances, particularly
concerning the buffer and vegetation requirements. Commissioner Lapping agreed,
remarking that the aesthetics of the commercial and business districts should
be reviewed as well. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton commented on the enforcement
procedures, that he felt these should be reviewed as well. Town Manager gave an
update on Hurricane Isabel, informing the board that the town was prepared in
the event the weather was bad due to the hurricane.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Milton “T” Dowdy addressed the board concerning any changes to existing
policies or water/sewer rates. He asked if the town could inform the public of
any changes the board makes during the year. Mayor Caddell replied that the
newsletter is prepared and mailed out approximately four times a year. The
newsletter is for the purpose of informing the public of changes to policies,
and fee changes, as well as, what is happening in the town.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
The board went into closed session, to discuss legal matters/personnel,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. The
board went into closed session at 8:35 p.m. Mayor Caddell reconvened the
Regular Meeting at 9:05 p.m. There was no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:05 p.m.
________________________________      _________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 20, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 20, 2003
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday October 20, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W. C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Sam
Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams-Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy
Taylor, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Officers
Kenny Wilkes, Mitch Cox, Donald Fairley, and Harry Haigler.
   Special guests attending were citizens Sandra Jean Cox, and Randy James
Dunn, Carrie Ann Suddreth, along with numerous family members. Other citizens
present were Bobby Plowman, and from the Pilot, reporter John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Ronnie Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.    PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Chief of Police Chris McKenzie announced that he had several “Outstanding
Citizenship Awards” to present tonight. Chief McKenzie asked Carrie Ann
Suddreth to assist him in making the presentation to Randy James Dunn for his
actions in her attempted abduction on June 12, 2003 at the Carthage Car Wash.
Ms. Suddreth tearfully thanked Mr. Dunn for his courageous effort to assist her
during the incident. Mr. Dunn was then presented with a plaque for “Outstanding
Citizenship”. Chief McKenzie then presented Sandra Jean Cox a plaque for
“Outstanding Citizenship”, for her courageous actions on July 29, 2003, during
a bank robbery at the BB&T in Carthage, which led to the arrest of the
suspected bank robber. Chief McKenzie informed the board that he had asked Mr.
Glenn Sides to be present tonight for his “Outstanding Citizenship Award”, for
his efforts in the capture of the suspected bank robber. Mr. Sides was not
present to receive his award.
Chief McKenzie then introduced the new full-time Police Officer Mitch Cox, and
two auxiliary Officers Donald Fairley, and Harry Haigler.
Next Mayor Caddell presented Finance Officer Linda Phillips with the “Employee
of the Month” Award for her actions during the recent audit. Carol Cleetwood
also informed the board that the town had recently received and award of
excellence in reporting the workers compensation claims. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood commented that it was because of things such as this, that Linda was
recognized.
Al Schierkolk had requested to speak to the board, however he was not present.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:15 p.m. The Public Hearing was
concerning the contiguous annexation of Needmore. There was not anyone present
to speak. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:18 p.m.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners adopted the Ordinance to Extend the
Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for the Needmore property, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following item, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Approval of Minutes Regular Meeting September 16, 2003.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
Copy attached, which is and does does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Needmore Annexation – Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits –
previously approved.
   B.   BFI – Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning a request from the
town’s garbage contractor, BFI with assistance in clarification to the citizens
of the town on the use of the large garbage cans. Carol reported that there are
numerous houses that are placing more than the approved 96-gallon garbage cans
out for pick-up. Some are placing two, three, and some times four cans out for
pick-up. Furthermore, BFI reports that some residents are placing yard debris
in the 96-gallon cans. Beginning with the November 3 pick-up BFI will only pick
up the one container. Bags can still be placed on top of the container, if it
is full of household garbage. Carol remarked that she would like to mail out a
notice to the citizens explaining this with the water bills this month. The
board approved.
   C.   Resolution Declaring Surplus Property – The board adopted the
Resolution Declaring Surplus Property, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried. The
following are declared surplus and will be put out for bid; 1997 Ford Crown
Victoria, 1995 Ford Crown Victoria, 1984 International 584 Tractor, 1985 750
John Deere Tractor.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
There were none. The Planning Board did not meet in October.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Ronnie Fields reported he wanted to add an item to the Agenda. A
Resolution from Governor Easley. Commissioner Fields made a motion to add the
Resolution Asking the President and Congress to Ensure the Long-Term Viability
of Domestic Manufacturing Industries. Commissioner Lapping seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried. The Resolution was adopted following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
John Chappell informed the board and citizens that the Mid-Atlantic Star Party
was taking place from October 21 through October 27th . John Chappell invited
anyone running for public office in the upcoming election to call the editor of
the Pilot Newspaper and make an appointment to speak concerning the election.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 7:45 p.m. The board returned to
regular session at 9:00 p.m. No action was taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m.
____________________________      ________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk    Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 17, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 17, 2003
6:15 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
November 17, 2003 at 6:15 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage. The
purpose of the Special Meeting was a workshop/discussion with Bill Lester of
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates and Jay Carter, Environmentalist Specialist, to
discuss the Nick’s Creek dam project.
Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields and Mike Waschsen. A quorum. Commissioners Sam Kelly and Sherwood
Lapping were absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams-
Carter, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Bill Lester, and Jay Carter.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:20 p.m.
   Bill Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates began discussion concerning the
dam project at Nick’s Creek. Bill Lester indicated he thought this project
could be completed through to the permitting phase; however there would be
considerable cost to see it through. In addition, he wanted to make it clear
that the pool of water would be considerably lower than what we have now. Jay
Carter explained that the permit for the current structure has expired and we
need to begin the permit process in order to maintain what we have, and in
order to move ahead with a permanent structure.
   Bill Lester informed the board that in order to begin the process; which
would include delineation of the wetlands, survey for threatened and endangered
species, consultation with the State Historic Preservation Office, prepare and
Environmental Assessment, complete the Individual Permit Application including
preparation of the Alternatives Analysis, Avoidance and Minimization, and
Mitigation, conduct a site meeting with the resourse agencies, concerns/
requirements agencies, the cost would run between $8,000.00 to $10,000.00. This
would not include the final permitting fees, planning or monitoring of the
wetlands mitigation, or the cost of planting trees and vegetation to create
replacement wetlands. Additionally, the fee for wetland mitigation alone can
run up to $20,000.00 per acre.
   There was much discussion concerning the likelihood of obtaining the
permanent permits. However, no decision was made.
   Mayor Caddell closed the meeting at 6:55 p.m.
_____________________________            _______________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk         Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 17, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 17, 2003
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday November 17, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A quorum. Commissioners Sam
Kelly and Sherwood Lapping were absent.
Also present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams-
Carter, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Finance Officer Linda Phillips,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Planning Board Member
Ron Mohr.
Concerned Citizens present were Betty Richardson, Brenda Brooks, Cheryl Emms,
Tom Emms, David Ragsdale, Mr. & Mrs. James Riley, and Mrs. Mohr.
Eddie Burke and Michele Donegain, from Cherry, Bekaert & Holland, CPA were also
in attendance to present the 2002-2003 FY Audit.
I.   CALLTO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mayor Caddell presented the “Employee of the Month” Award to Director of Public
Works Sammy Taylor. Mayor Caddell remarked that since the new water plant has
been in operation, the town has experienced a myriad of problems. Not one of
the engineers, involved in the design or completion of the water plant, nor
representatives of NC Department of Water Quality, had been able to solve the
problems, however Sammy had worked diligently to find a solution, and so far
the water plant is operating the way it was designed to. Mayor Caddell and the
Board of Commissioners congratulated Sammy for a job well done. Mr. Eddie
Burke, CPA presented the FY 2002-2003 Audit. Mr. Burke highlighted several
items of the audit, remarking that the town had obtained an “unqualified or
clean opinion” from the auditors. Mr. Warren Nall, who had asked to be placed
on the agenda, was not present.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Approval of Minutes Regular Meeting October 20, 2003
   B.   Budget Amendment #2, #3
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Chief McKenzie
reported on the tragic fatal automobile accident, which happened on November 6,
2003, reporting that he could not comment until the investigation of the
accident had been completed. Mr. Betty Richardson, as well as some of her
family members spoke concerning the comments made by the media, in regards to
the possibility that the sign located next to Pep’s Restaurant had been the
cause of the accident. Apparently, the media had misrepresented a comment that
the Chief had made concerning the sign. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood informed
the board that the sign was in compliance with the town’s zoning ordinance.
Commissioner Fields remarked he would like to see a traffic light installed at
the intersection of Highway 15-501 and Union Church Road. The board approved
the purchase of new tables for the McDonald Building. It was decided to raise
the amount of rent that Weight Watchers and the Rotary pay for the monthly
rental of the McDonald building, to $200.00 a month. Additionally, Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood is to compose a contract to be signed by both parties, along
with the town. It was also decided to change the locks on the McDonald
Building.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board approved the Ordinance Amending Section 1. Chapter 31.22 of
the Carthage Town Code; as presented, copy attached, which is and does become
part of these minutes, concerning the appointment of the Fire Chief, following
a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen.
All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Discussion began concerning the planning Board vacancy created by the
election of Jean Riley to the Board of Commissioners. The Planning Board had
recommended Chris Lassiter, however, it was decided to post a notice that
anyone interested in participating could place his or her name on a list for
consideration. The appointment would be made at the January Regular Meeting.
   C.   Discussion began concerning the Historical Committee Vacancies. The
board approved allowing the Committee Chairperson to call the names submitted,
for consideration. There was discussion concerning Jean Riley continuing to
serve on the Historical Committee. It was determined that the town had an
existing policy that would not allow an elected official to serve on a town
board appointed committee.
   D.   The date for the Public Hearing concerning the Amendment to the Town of
Carthage Zoning Ordinance, adding Highway Commercial District, and the proposed
rezoning of the Highway 15-501 corridor from “TBD” to “HCD” was scheduled for
Monday December 15, 2003 at 7:00 p.m., following a motion made by Commissioner
Waschsen and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
Planning Board held a work-session on November 6, 2003, and the Carthage
Historical Committee met on October 14, 2003, copies attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Mayor Caddell congratulated Jean Riley and Ronnie Fields on their election and
re-election, respectively, to the Town Board of Commissioners.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS / PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 8:35 p.m. The board reconvened the
regular meeting at 10:00 p.m. No action was taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 10:00 p.m.
____________________________      ________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
DECEMBER 15, 2003
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 15, 2003
7:00 PM.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
December 15, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioner Sam
Kelly was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams-
Carter, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief
Brian Tyner, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, town employee Billy Rouse,
Planning Board Member Ron Mohr, and incoming Commissioner Jean Riley.
   Concerned citizens present were Jimmy Riley, Betty Richardson, David
Ragsdale, Kay Boggs, Duncan & Barbara Kelly, Wayne Caddell, Pete Dowd, Mark
Lemmond, Brad Mallow, David Thompson, Al Graham, and numerous other citizens.
   Also in attendance was John Chappell, from the Pilot newspaper, and
distinguished guest Catherine Graham, Moore County Clerk of Court.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:01 P.M.
II.   INVOCATION:  
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Moore County Clerk of Court Catherine Graham gave the oaths of office to
Commissioners Jean Riley and Ronnie Fields and Mayor Larry Caddell. Mayor
Caddell announced that the board would like to present a plaque to Sam Kelly
personally, thanking him for all his hard work and dedication in serving as
town commissioner for the past four years. Mayor Caddell presented the
“employee of the month” award for the month of November to Billy Rouse,
thanking him for all he does for the town of Carthage.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:37 p.m. The purpose of the public
hearing was to amend the Town of Carthage Zoning to add “HCD” Highway
Commercial District and to hear comment and consider changing the Highway 15-
501 corridor, which is presently zoned “TBD” Thoroughfare Business District to
“HCD”. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reviewed the proposed Highway Commercial
District, remarking that the rezoning would not impact anyone who has an
established business. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning the
proposed sign requirements within the “HCD”, signs can only be a maximum height
of 8’, which is lower than what is presently allowed. Carol reported that if an
existing business took down an existing sign, then they would have to comply
with the new requirements within 25%. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked
that the proposed zoning change will mainly affect new businesses, not existing
businesses, they would be “grand fathered”. Much discussion began with the
citizens. David Thompson question the fact that an existing building would be
“grand fathered” Mayor Caddell stated that we could provide him with a copy of
our Ordinance. Kay Boggs spoke concerning the proposed rezoning, remarking that
she is against the setbacks and parking requirements. Pete Dowd spoke
concerning the sign requirements, the parking requirements and the setbacks. He
was not in favor of the proposed change. Duncan and Barbara Kelly were not in
favor of the proposed change. Wayne Caddell spoke, remarking he was not in
favor of the proposed changes either. Mayor Caddell reported on how this
proposed change in zoning came about. The board had been concerned about many
issues, and had asked the Planning Board to come up with a proposal. Mayor
Caddell remarked that the purpose of a public hearing is to hear comment from
the public. The Planning Board had made a recommendation to change the zoning
and the board wished to hear comment from the property owners. Mayor Caddell
reported that the main reason for considering a change in the zoning was to
protect the integrity of the town. Mayor Caddell informed the citizens that
there would be no decision made tonight, and the issues that they were
concerned about would be reviewed and considered by the Planning Board at the
next Planning Board meeting on Thursday January 8, 2004 and that all affected
property owners would receive a notice of that meeting and were welcome to come
and voice their opinions.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting November 17, 2003.
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting November 17, 2003.
   C.   Budget Amendment #4.
   D.   Budget Transfer #B.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Mayor Caddell
asked Chief Mckenzie to report on the final outcome of the fatal car accident
on November 6, 2003. Chief McKenzie reported that the driver of the vehicle
involved did stop at the stop sign, and that the sign was in no way a cause of
the accident. Furthermore, the speed the DOT truck was traveling was determined
to be within the speed limit, between 31-39 miles per hour. Chief McKenzie
informed the board that with the help of Commissioner Ronnie Fields and Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood, it looks like we are expected to get a stop light at
the intersection of Union Church Road and Highway 15-501, sometime in June/July
2004.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Zoning Ordinance Amendment – add “HCD” to Carthage Zoning Ordinance –
tabled.
   B.   Change Zoning from “TBD” to “HCD” on the Highway 15-501 corridor –
tabled.
   C.   The board approved changing the January meeting date from Monday
January 19, 2004 to Tuesday January 20, 2004, due to the Martin Luther King
Holiday, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS:  
There were none.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Waschsen commended all involved with the Christmas parade.
Commissioner Riley did the same. Commissioner Fields remarked about the
drainage problems on 15-501, asking Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor to
look into the problems. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton welcomed new Commissioner Jean
Riley.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 8:51 p.m. The board reconvened their
regular meeting at 10:15 p.m. Mayor Caddell reported there was action to be
taken. The board approved the purchase of an SUV for the Fire Department, at a
cost of no more than $26,000.00, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 10:15 p.m.
______________________________   _____________________________
Melissa Adams-Carter, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor  
2004 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 20, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 20, 2004
6:30 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Tuesday
January 20, 2004 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage. The purpose
of the Special Meeting was a workshop/discussion concerning personnel.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis and reporter John Chappell.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
   Chief McKenzie re-submitted his proposal from last month, with the changes
that were requested. The board reviewed the proposal. There was some discussion
among the commissioners concerning training policies. Commissioner Lapping
inquired about a policy whereby, the police officers had to repay any training
expenses if they terminate employment within a specified amount of time. Chief
McKenzie remarked we have a policy in place that covers that, however we have
not been enforcing it. Commissioner Lapping stated he felt this should be
enforced.
   After some discussion, it was decided that the salary increases would be
approved, as submitted, to be effective February 1, 2004, and post-pone the
hiring dates for the new hires, if by changing the increases from March to
February would still work within the budget, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 6:57 p.m.
_________________________________      ______________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JANUARY 20, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 20, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Tuesday January 20, 2004 at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Mike Waschsen, Jean Riley, and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Police Officer Robert Caulk, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, Planning Board Members Vernon Kelly, and Ron Mohr.
   Others present were Mrs. Mohr, Frankie Yow, Jeanette Spear, Bill & Joanne
Coles, Jay Smith, Bob & Cindy Walden, Roger Nichols, Al Schierkolk, and
reporter John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
Addition of item D. - VIII. New Business – Tree Planting at Nick’s Creek.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mayor Caddell remarked that he had invited several citizens from the Oakdale
Subdivision to come and speak at the meeting tonight. Several citizens spoke
concerning a resident in their neighborhood, who they feel is involved with
drugs and illegal activities. Several of the citizens spoke about the problem
and asked the board what action the police department was taking in order to
put an end to the problem. Police Chief Chris McKenzie spoke and assured the
citizens that the problem was being addressed by his department. It was decided
that the concerned citizens and Chief McKenzie, and Police Lt. Davis would go
to the other room to discuss how the situation was being handled and what the
citizens could do to assist the Police Department in eliminating this problem
in their neighborhood.
   A.   Employee of the Month:  Mayor Caddell presented the “employee of the
month” for the month of December to Robert Caulk, thanking him for the
excellent job he does working for the town.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
There was none.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items, with a correction to the second page,
6th line of the first paragraph of the regular minutes, Pete Holder should be
changed to Pete Dowd, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting December 15, 2003
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting December 15, 2003
   C.   Budget Amendment #5, #6, #7
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Director of
Public Works Sammy Taylor spoke concerning having a meeting with U.S. Filter
concerning the replacement of the membranes at the water plant. There was much
discussion among the board members concerning this. The meeting was set for
Wednesday February 11, 2004 at 9:00 a.m. at the McDonald Building. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood discussed the situation on the dam at Nick’s Creek, reporting
that Jay Carter had set up a meeting with some of the State agencies. This
meeting would not involve the town. Much discussion followed. It was decided to
try and enlist the help of Congressman Howard Coble, he will be in town on
February 19, 2004.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS: 
   A.   The board set the Budget Workshop for Wednesday February 25, 2004 from
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the Fire Department.
   B.   The board set the meeting with U.S. Filter for Wednesday February 11,
2004 at 9:00 a.m. at the McDonald Building.
   C.   The board approved Chris Lassiter and Connie Burns to serve out the
unexpired terms of planning board members Tom Mohan and Jean Riley, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved the contract with Forestree Management Co., for the
planting of trees at Nick’s Creek to replace harvested timber, at a cost of
$69.50/acre, for a total of $4,865.00, subject to Commissioner Fields
investigation into whether the town would be eligible for state funds for the
replanting, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS: 
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
The Planning Board did not meet in January. The Carthage Historical Committee
met on January 13, 2004, copy of minutes attached, which are and do become part
of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Waschsen commented that he had an item concerning personnel for
closed session. Commissioner Lapping inquired about a town vehicle use policy.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that she is working on developing a town
vehicle use policy and this will probably be on the February agenda.
Commissioner Lapping also commented on having town decals on all town vehicles.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
John Chappell spoke about the Sandhills Theater performing at the Nancy Kiser
Park this year. There was some discussion about possibly having a summer series
of plays or performances at the park.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL/LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 8:20 p.m. The board reconvened their
regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked there was no action to be
taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: M
ayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m.
_________________________________      _____________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor 
FEBRUARY 11, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
FEBRUARY 11, 2004
9:00 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Wednesday
February 11, 2004 at 9:00 a.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage. The
purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the replacement of the membranes
at the Carthage Water Treatment Plant with Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates and
U.S. Filter.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Page Adams, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor, Bill Lester, and Joe
McGougan from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, Bob McCarthy, Vice President Sales,
Tom Rainier, Process Engineer, Russ Swerdfeger, Memcor Installation Specialist,
John Kolcker from U.S. Filter, and Robert Kelly from MECO.
   Mayor Caddell opened the meeting at 9:01 a.m.
   Joe McGougan began by remarking that everyone was here today to discuss the
situation with the membranes at the water plant. Mr. McGougan informed the
board that the issue of the glue showing up in a water sample had been
resolved, that after numerous water samples being taken, the substance has not
been detected. Mr. McGougan stated that the operation of the membranes was not
optimal, as the water plant was having to do more cleansing and backwashes then
originally expected. Mr. McGougan commented that it was the position of Hobbs,
Upchurch & Associates that the membranes should be replaced.
   Bob McCarthy began discussion concerning several issues in which U.S. Filter
believes to have been contributing factors to the problems at the water plant.
Mr. McCarthy remarked that they believe that the contributing factors were the
drought last year, followed by the excessive rain in the fall, which in turn
affected the water quality. Mr. McCarthy commented that U.S. Filter has spent a
large amount of money and time to try to correct some of the problems that were
being experienced at the water plant. Mr. McCarthy remarked that he agreed that
the membranes needed to be replaced, however he was here today to ask for
consideration that the town pay their share of the cost to replace them.
Additionally, Mr. McCarthy felt that there needed to be an algae control
program implanted at the reservoir, along with additional training, and
reprogramming of the water plant. U.S. Filter would also offer a substantially
lowered cost on chemicals, and free training. Mr. McCarthy stated that U.S.
Filter will honor the warranty on the membranes, but would ask that the town
pay a proportionate share of the cost to replace them.
   Mayor Caddell began by addressing the issue of a company’s reputation. Mayor
Caddell remarked that once a company’s reputation is gone, you can’t get it
back. Mayor Caddell felt that U.S. Filter should do the right thing and replace
the membranes, to protect their reputation. Mayor Caddell communicated that he
and the Board of Commissioners should not have to incur any of the cost to
replace the membranes. The town had a responsibility to the taxpayers of the
Town of Carthage to protect the investment made in the water plant.
   There was some discussion back and forth between U.S. Filter, Joe McGougan,
and the Board of Commissioners, concerning the chemical issues. Mr. McGougan
reiterated that the issue here was the replacement of the membranes, that all
the other issues with the water plant had been resolved. Mr. McCarthy asked
again for some consideration from the town to help offset the cost of replacing
the membranes.
   Mayor Caddell stated that the town expected the membranes to be replaced, at
no cost to the town, along with original warranty.
   Mr. McCarthy commented that they would replace the membranes. However, there
was discussion concerning the warranty of the new membranes to be installed at
the water plant.
It was decided that Mr. McCarthy, Joe McGougan and Sammy Taylor would meet
directly after this meeting to work out the details of the warranty, and bring
back a proposal for the board to consider at the Regular Meeting Monday
February 16, 2004.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:50 a.m.
_________________________________      _____________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 16, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 16, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday February 16, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Jean Riley, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum.
Commissioner Sherwood Lapping was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Page Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy
Taylor, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain
Bart Davis, Police Sergeant Michael Hardin, Police Corporal Rick Bickel, Patrol
Officer Donald Fairley, newly hired Police Officer Annie Mazura, and Auxiliary
Police Officer Chris Wilson, Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr, and Planning
Board Members Marvin Hamer, and Vernon Kelly.
   Concerned citizens present were Charles Eddie Thomas, Paul Cummings,
Tieliang (Leon) Zhang, Mrs. Mohr, Pilot Newspaper Reporter John Chappell, Bill
Lester and Joe McGougan from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, and numerous family
members of the Police Officers who were being promoted.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Chief McKenzie announced the following promotions; Lt. Bart Davis has been
promoted to Captain, Patrolman Michael Hardin has been promoted to Sergeant,
and Patrolman Rick Bickel has been promoted to Corporal. A formal presentation
was made for each of them. Chris McKenzie presented the “Police Officer of the
Year” Award to Michael Hardin. Mayor Caddell and the board congratulated each
one and commended them for all the hard work, and dedication to the Town of
Carthage. Chief McKenzie introduced newly hired Police Officer Annie Mazura.
REFRESHMENTS were served.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Request from Charles Eddie Thomas for a Conditional Use Permit to place
a mobile home on the property located at 196 Thomas Drive, LRK # 6510. The
property is zoned RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq. ft. lots”, and
mobile homes are a conditional use. Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at
7:20 p.m. Town Clerk Melissa Adams swore Mr. Thomas in for testimony. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood informed the board the manufactured home would be in
keeping with surrounding land uses, which include mobile homes. It would not
affect the surrounding property values, or negatively affect the public health,
safety and welfare of the area. Furthermore, Public Hearing notices were mailed
to all surrounding property owners and we have not received any negative
comments. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:25 p.m. The Carthage
Board of Commissioners voted to grant the Conditional Use Permit to allow Mr.
Charles Eddie Thomas to place a mobile home on the lot located at 196 Thomas
Drive, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields, and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Request from Tieliang & Ming Zhang to re-zone a 19,565 sq. ft. parcel
LRK # 6004, from TBD “Thoroughfare Business District” to R-10 “Residential
10,000 sq. ft. lots”. The 75,186 sq. ft. portion of the property fronting on
Monroe Street will remain zoned TBD. Mayor Caddell called the Public Hearing to
order at 7:25 p.m. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that the parcel would
be contiguous to R-10 property, so it would not constitute “spot zoning”.
Public Hearing notices had been mailed to all adjoining property owners and we
have not received any objections to the request. Mr. Zhang communicated that it
was his intention to build a house on the back portion and eventually a
restaurant on the front portion facing Monroe Street. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood reported that the Planning Board had voted in favor of the re-zoning.
Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:30 p.m. The request for re-zoning
the 19,565 sq. ft. parcel from TBD to R-10 was approved, following a motion
made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   C.   Request from Paul Cummings to re-zone a .28-acre parcel on Hwy 24/27
LRK # 3612 from RA-40 to a Special Use District. The proposed uses are as
follows; small equipment rental or leasing, convenience store with out gas,
variety store and general merchandise, auto repair shop had been changed to
beauty shop, and pawn shop and been changed to thrift shop. Mayor Caddell
opened the Public Hearing at 7:30 p.m. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked
that allowing this Special Use District would not constitute “spot zoning”.
Public Hearing notices had been mailed to all adjoining property owners and we
had not received any negative comments. Furthermore, the Planning Board voted
in favor of approving the re-zoning. Mr. Paul Cummings spoke concerning
renovating the property. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:38 p.m.
The board approved the request for re-zoning the .28 acre parcel to a Special
Use District, on the condition that Mr. Cummings consult with Mr. & Mrs.
Salmon, who own property next to the back portion of Mr. Cummings property,
concerning placing a privacy fence around the back of the property line,
following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner
Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and Seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting January 20, 2004
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting January 20, 2004
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting February 11, 2004
   D.   Budget Amendments #8, #9, #10
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood reported that the multi-agency meeting that Jay Carter had
scheduled for January 27, that had been canceled has been rescheduled for
February 27, 2004 at 10:30 a.m. There was much discussion concerning Moore
County requiring the municipalities to pay for restaurant grease interceptor
inspections, quarterly at a cost of $25.00 per inspection. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood to call and make an appointment with County Manager Steve Wyatt, to
discuss this. Mayor Caddell spoke concerning the Methodist Food Bank. They have
been using a trailer, which has been parked in their parking lot across from
the Church for a food bank. Trailers are not permitted in the Historical
District, and it was recently brought to the town’s attention. A letter had
been mailed, asking the church to move it. Mayor Caddell remarked that he felt
like they should be allowed to move in the back part of the Municipal Building
parking lot. There was much discussion concerning the liability and the concern
that the traffic could possibly interfere with the Police and Fire Department.
It was decided to allow the Methodist Church to move the food bank trailer to
the Municipal Building parking lot, on a temporary basis, as long as they cover
any expenses the town may incur, and if it becomes a problem then the town will
reconsider allowing them to use the parking lot, Town Manager to call the
League regarding the liability issue, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton, and seconded by Commissioner Riley.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   U.S. Filter - Replacement of Membranes. Mayor Caddell opened discussion
concerning the meeting following the Special Meeting Wednesday February 11,
2004 with Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor,
and representatives from U.S. Filter. Joe McGougan from Hobbs, Upchurch &
Associates reported that he was recommending the following; the membranes will
be replaced with the original three year warranty, the first year is a full
warranty, the second and third years are pro-rated, the final payment to U.S.
Filter will be broken into two payments, one half will be paid when the
membranes are replaced and the balance within twenty days, and finally the town
should consider some portion of the proposed service agreement. After some
discussion, concerning the additional training and reprogramming of the
computers, it was decided that Mr. Joe McGougan along with Sammy Taylor will ok
everything before the final payment is made, the town will approve the
conditions for the replacement of the membranes, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields, and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   The Conditional Use Permit for Charles Eddie Thomas had been approved.
   C.   The request for re-zoning by Tieliang & Ming Zhang had been approved.
   D.   The request for re-zoning by Paul Cummings had been approved.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
– There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board met on February 12, 2004, and the Historical Committee met
on February 10, 2004, copies of minutes attached, which are and do become part
of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Fields reported that the Garden Club was looking for projects for
the upcoming year and they may plant new shrubs and plants around the “Welcome
to Carthage” signs. He felt that the town should install a water source for
watering the plants at the two signs that don’t presently have water. The board
was in agreement with this. Mayor Pro-Tem asked for clarification on the
upcoming meeting. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked the Budget Retreat was
scheduled for Wednesday February 25, 2004 at 8:30 a.m. in the Fire Department.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL/LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 8:15 p.m. The board reconvened the
regular meeting at 8:30 p.m. Mayor Caddell reported that there was no action to
be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.
_____________________________         ________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk         Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MARCH 15, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 15, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday March 15, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Commissioners Jean Riley, Mike
Waschsen, Sherwood Lapping, and Ronnie Fields. A Quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.
Walton was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Page Adams, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Assistant Fire Chief Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, and Street Supervisor Robbie Baker, and concerned citizen
Roy Harbin.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
   A.   Mayor Caddell remarked that we were recognizing two employees tonight,
the employee of the month for January, Melissa Adams, and employee of the month
for February, Robbie Baker. Mayor Caddell thanked both Melissa and Robbie for
jobs well done.
   B.   Mr. Roy Harbin spoke concerning the events that transpired on March 7,
2004. He reported to the board that at approximately 8:30 p.m. they noticed a
fire burning at his rental house, his wife called 911 to report a fire. At that
time they were not sure if it was a house fire or a woods fire. Mr. Harbin
remarked that the fire department never arrived, and if not for the help from
neighbors, he was not sure that they would have been able to extinguish the
fire. Mr. Harbin did not understand why the fire department did not respond to
the fire. Mr. Harbin called Town Manager Carol Cleetwood on Monday morning and
later came to the office and spoke to Chief Tyner and Mike Waschsen. Mr. Harbin
informed the board he had a print out of the 911 dispatched calls. Commissioner
Fields asked Chief Tyner to speak concerning the events of that night. Chief
Tyner explained that while they were enroute to the fire call at Mr. Harbin’s
rental house, they received another call for a confirmed fire. Chief Tyner
explained that at that point he had to make a judgment call, go to an unknown
fire, or a confirmed fire endangering structures. He made the decision to go to
the confirmed fire, and they turned around. Radio communication was virtually
impossible at that time, as the 911 tower had been knocked out, leaving them
with only one channel. The fire department had a large number of fire calls,
one right after the other during that night. Chief Tyner reported that
Assistant Chief Junior Vest had driven out to Lamns Road and never saw a fire.
Later that night they did arrive to hose down the area. Mr. Harbin reiterated
his concerns that as a taxpayer he expects the fire department to come when
they are called upon. The board recommended that Chief Tyner possibly meet with
Steady Mears and come up with a better plan to handle multiple calls. The board
assured Mr. Harbin that they would review the events and access the situation
to see where they may be able to make improvements, so that this would not
happen again.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by
Commissioners Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting February 16, 2004
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting February 25, 2004
   C.   Budget Amendment #11, #12
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. After some
discussion it was decided to table item 2, Personnel Policy Amendment; Policy
for town-owned vehicles. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that Charles
Taylor with the Fresh Start Church has requested to use the Old Town Hall
building on Sundays. They would like a reduced rent of $100.00 each Sunday.
There was much discussion concerning the parking issue. Mayor Caddell
instructed Town Manager Carol Cleetwood to have Riley Paving give a proposal on
some options for paving available at the Old Town Hall. After some discussion,
it was decided they could rent the McDonald Building for the regular rental fee
of $100.00 per Sunday. After some discussion it was decided to try to have a
joint meeting with the Planning Board at their regular meeting on Thursday May
6, 2004 at 7:30.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board approved the Request for Annexation from Thomas Wayne
Caddell, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board passed the Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate a
Petition Received Under G.S. 160A-31, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board accepted the Certificate of Sufficiency for the Caddell
Annexation.
   D.   The board passed the Resolution Fixing the Date of the Public Hearing
on Question of Caddell Annexation Pursuant to G.S. 160A.-58.2, as Amended, to
be held on April 19, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board passed the Resolution Requesting Certain Streets be
Transferred from the State DOT System to the Town of Carthage, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   The board approved the Resolution Authorizing Membership in the
Triangle Area Rural Planning Organization, with Commissioner Lapping as the
representative, following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded
by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
The Planning Board met on March 4, 2004, copy attached, which is and does
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields remarked about the election of a Mayor Pro-tem since the
last election in November. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood to check on this and
put on the agenda for the April meeting. Commissioner Lapping informed the
board he would not be present for the May regular meeting. It was decided to
change the May regular meeting from Monday May 17, 2004 to Monday May 24, 2004
at 7:00 p.m., following a motion made by Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
There was none.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
______________________________      ______________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor  
APRIL 19, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 19, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday April 19, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, Police Officer Donald Fairley, and Planning Board Chairman Ron
Mohr. Concerned citizens present were Mrs.Mohr, Neil Wolfe, Jay Smith, Pastor
Jim Boyt of Gospel Chapel, Lloyd McGraw, and from the Pilot Newspaper John
Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Pastor Jim Boyt gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Jean Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Mayor Caddell remarked that we were recognizing Police Officer Donald Fairley
as Employee of the Month for March. Mayor Caddell and the Board of
Commissioners congratulated Police Officer Fairley for a job well done.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Request from Wayne Caddell – voluntary contiguous annexation. Mayor
Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:03 p.m. There was no one present to
speak, and there had been no objections from adjoining property owners
concerning this request. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:04 p.m.
The board unanimously approved the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of
the Town of Carthage for the Caddell Annexation, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields, and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   Request from Gospel Chapel located at 106 Vass Road for a variance of
the front setback requirements, from (30’) thirty feet, to (16’) sixteen feet.
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:04 p.m. Town Clerk Melissa Adams
swore in Jim Boyt. Pastor Boyt informed the board that his church has outgrown
the room they presently have and they would like to build on to the church. He
also stated that they would like to build handicap accessible bathroom
facilities. Furthermore, the way the building is built and the locations of the
streets, they felt there was no other way to build on to the church, but in the
front. If they were to build on to the other side of the church, then they
would not have a parking lot. Pastor Boyt gave a presentation on how the
building looks now, and how it will look after the addition is completed. There
were no objections from any of the surrounding property owners. Mayor Caddell
closed the Public Hearing at 7:12 p.m. The board approved the variance for the
front set back requirements from 30’ to 16’, following a motion made by
Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   Request from Kim Kelly Smith and Jay Smith to re-zone an 8.25-acre
parcel LRK # 94000163, located on Summit Street, from R-20 “Residential 20,000
sq. ft. Lots” to RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq. ft. Lots”. Mayor
Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m. Jay Smith spoke concerning his
request. He informed the board that he and his family only wish to be able to
have a horse on the property, no livestock or chickens. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood informed the board that a lot of the surrounding property is zoned
RA-40, so this would not constitute “spot zoning”. Furthermore, horses are
permitted inside the town limits only if the property is zoned RA-40. There had
been no objections from surrounding property owners. Mayor Caddell closed the
Public Hearing at 7:12 p.m. The board approved the request for re-zoning the
8.25-acre parcel LRK #94000163, from R-20, to RA-40, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Riley and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting March 15, 2004.
   B.   Budget Amendments # 13, 14, 15.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that she had discovered that when
they went from Mayor/Council to Manager/Council form of Government, the
designation of Mayor Pro-Tem was until such time as the board decided to change
it. The board elected to leave it as is, with W.C. Walton serving as Mayor Pro-
Tem.
   B.   The board had previously approved the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate
Limits of the Town of Carthage – Caddell Annexation.
   C.   The board approved the Ordinance Creating an Auxiliary Police Force
within the Carthage Police Department, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board adopted the Resolution Requesting Certain Streets be
Transferred from the State DOT System to the Town of Carthage; Canary Street
(State Rd 1866) 1450 ft. (0.28) miles, Bruce Street (State Rd 1913) 400 ft.
(.08) miles, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board adopted the Resolution Repealing the Two Percent Property Tax
Prepayment Discount, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   The board approved the Proclamation for Municipal Clerks Week May 2
through May 8, 2004, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   The board approved the Mutual Aid Agreement for Fire Protection,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
The board adopted the Amendment to the Town of Carthage Personnel Policy – Use
of Town Owned Vehicles, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
The Carthage Historical Committee met on March 11, and April 8, 2004, and the
Carthage Planning Board met on April 1, 2004, copies attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields commended Town Clerk Melissa Adams for obtaining entry
level of the Master Municipal Clerk Academy, and Police Officer Donald Fairly
for Employee of the Month. Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning the Park. He
reported he had attended a play on Saturday put on by the Sandhills Theater
Company. The Sandhills Theater is also putting on a performance on Friday April
23, Saturday April 24, and Sunday April 25, 2004. Commissioner Lapping remarked
he felt there was going to be an increase in the activity at the park.
Commissioner Lapping indicated he was concerned about the vandalism at the
park. There was much discussion concerning installing some video cameras at the
park, as well as the possibility of forming a park and recreation committee out
of a concerned group of citizens. Mayor Caddell remarked he would put up $100
for a camera, as well as, Commissioner Fields. Police Chief McKenzie is to
investigate prices. Pastor Jim Boyt informed the board he would install them.
He also indicated he would be interested in being on any future committee
involved with the park.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL, G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem
Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
went into closed session at 8:00 p.m. The board moved back into the regular
meeting at 9:00 p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked there was no action to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m.
____________________________      _________________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 26, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 26, 2004
4:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday April
26, 2004 at 4:00 p.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located at 4396 Hwy
15-501 in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Commissioner Ronnie Fields, Sherwood
Lapping and Mike Waschsen. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, and
Commissioner Jean Riley were absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, and Steady Meares from Moore County Emergency Management.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the proposed 3,000 sq. ft.
training classroom, to be located inside the Municipal Building. The proposed
classroom is to be constructed in conjunction with Sandhills Community College
for Public Safety training.
   There was some discussion concerning the proposed classroom and how the
lease would be handled. The consensus was that the lease amount would be
$12,000.00 a year. There was some discussion on possibly the county – wide Fire
Departments and Police Departments paying the cost of the lease. It was decided
to look to Sandhills Community College, and inquire if they were planning to
pay the cost of the lease.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 5:00 p.m.
______________________________      ______________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MAY 6, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MAY 6, 2004
2:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday May
6, 2004 at 2:00 p.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located at 4396 Hwy 15-
501 in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C.Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioner Jean
Riley was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Page Adams, and Finance Officer Linda Phillips.
   The Board reviewed the proposed FY 2004-2005 Budget, going over the revenues
and expenditures.
   There was some discussion concerning the proposed purchasing of police cars
with the equipment already installed. Commissioner Fields inquired about
checking on getting prices on the equipment separately. Commissioner Fields
felt the town could save a substantial amount of money by not purchasing the
police cars fully equipped. Finance Officer Linda Phillips and Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood are to check into the prices of the equipment if purchased
separately.
   It was noted there is a Fund Balance appropriation of $72,000.00 from the
Fire District Reserve for the final payment on the fire truck. There is a Fund
Balance appropriation of $23,527.00 from the General Fund, in order to balance
the budget.
   The proposed budget also included a flat rate increase for water and sewer,
from $9.00 flat rate for water and $9.00 flat rate for sewer to $11.00 flat
rate for both water and sewer. This would be an increase in the water and sewer
revenues of $38,832.00. There was some discussion concerning this proposed
increase, and whether or not it would be enough, so that next year water and
sewer rates would not have to be increased. Town manager Carol Cleetwood
remarked that the town operated for so long at a loss in the water and sewer
revenues that it will take some time to see a difference. Furthermore, with the
proposed increase in the flat rate, plus the proposed increase in building that
we are expecting, the water and sewer revenues should be substantially higher
next year.
   Mayor Caddell asked that Finance Officer Linda Phillips do an analysis on
the revenues versus expenditures in the water and sewer fund, for last year as
well as this year.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 3:15 p.m.
__________________________________      ____________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MAY 25, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 25, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Tuesday May 25, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping and Mike Waschsen. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
P. Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Sammy
Taylor, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt. Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, and Public Works employee Wayne Hubbard. Concerned citizens present were
Pastor Tom Herndon, Ray Ogden from Partners in Progress, and John Chappell from
the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mayor Caddell remarked that we were recognizing Wayne Hubbard as the Employee
of the Month for the month of April. Mayor Caddell and the Board of
Commissioners congratulated Wayne for a job well done.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
There was none.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting April 19, 2004
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting April 26, 2004
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting May 6, 2004
   D.   Budget Amendments #16, #17, #18
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. It was noted
that Fire Chief Brian Tyner has been working to install the dry hydrants, ten
in all surrounding the Carthage area. Commissioner Lapping remarked this was a
major improvement for Carthage.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Mr. Ray Ogden from Partners in Progress addressed the board presenting
an overview of how Partners in Progress was formed. They were formerly
partnered with the Sandhills Area Chamber of Commerce Economic Development. In
July 2002 they were changed to Moore County Partners in Progress and are now
funded by Moore County, participating Moore County Municipalities, and
donations. Mr. Ogden went over a myriad of items, including statistics on
economic development plans, unemployment figures and how they are now trying to
market the area to recruit new businesses and jobs. Mr. Ogden remarked that
there are several sites here in Carthage that they have actively been trying to
market. Mr. Ogden asked that the town consider joining Partners in Progress.
After some discussion it was decided that the Town of Carthage would contribute
$2,500.00 to Partners in Progress following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.    The NCDOT is proposing to revise the Functional Classification System
for the Carthage/Moore County area. This is the process by which streets and
highways are grouped into classes, or systems, according to the character of
service they are intended to provide. The current update will enhance traffic
flow around Carthage and through Moore County on the completion of the Carthage
bypass. Moore County is being asked to approve the following as well as the
town;
      1.   Change the Rural minor Arterial, NC 24/27, US 15/501 to West of SR
1640 (Kelly Plantation Rd.) to Rural Major Collector (3.70 miles)
      2.   Add as Rural Minor Arterial (4.30 miles) – Proposed NC 24/27, East
of SR 1653 (Priest Hill Rd.) to West of SR 1640 (Kelly Plantation Rd.)
The NCDOT Functional Classification change was approved following a motion made
by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   At the Regular Meeting April 19, 2004 the board adopted a Mutual Aid
Agreement with other Moore County Fire Departments. For Insurance purposes, the
individual fire departments need each municipality to have a signed Water Usage
Agreement in place. The Water Usage Agreement for Community Fire-Fighting
Purposes was approved, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
Commissioner Fields asked about having the fire whistle go off on a regular
basis. Director of Public Works Sammy Taylor remarked that it was being tested
the 1st Monday of every month. It was recommended that Steady Meares be
contacted about having the alarm connected to the 911 system.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS:
There were none.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood was asked to get prices on moving the Kitchen
behind the McDonald Building over to the Museum. Additionally, she is to get
the agreement from Moore County for payment from the town for the aerial
photography over a three-year period, in writing. Both Commissioners Fields and
Lapping commented on how successful the recent Buggy Festival had been.
Everyone was to be commended for a job well done.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
John Chappell remarked he had recently been in Washington, DC for a Memorial
for D-Day Veterans.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONELL G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (6):
The board moved into Closed Session at 8:30 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board reconvened the Regular Meeting at 9:20 p.m. Mayor Caddell
remarked there was no action to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:21 p.m.
_____________________________      _______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JUNE 21, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 21, 2004
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday June 21, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Mike Waschsen, Sherwood Lapping, and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Administrative
Assistant Susan Maness, and from the Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Mayor Caddell recognized Susan Maness as the Employee of the Month for the
month of May. Mayor Caddell and the Board of Commissioners commended Susan for
the excellent job she does for the town.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing on the proposed FY 2004 – 2005 Budget
at 7: 04 p.m. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood read the Budget Message, and
reviewed several items in the proposed budget, copy attached, which is and will
become part of these minutes. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:11
p.m. The board approved the proposed FY Budget 2004 – 2005 as presented,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting May 25, 2004.
   B.   Budget Amendments #19, #20.
   C.   Budget Transfers #C, #D
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood reported that the final inspection on Condo “A” at Little River
has been completed. It was reported that Fire Chief Tyner still had five dry
hydrants remaining to install, this should be done sometime within the next
week. It was also reported that the process has begun to gain permission to
burn the old house next to the Chuck Wagon, beside the Gingerbread Man’s Grill.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS: 
   A.   Adoption of the FY 2004 – 2005 Budget had already been approved.
   B.   The board approved the Certificate of Petition for the request from
Christie Cole for annexation, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields
and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board adopted the Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate a
Petition Received Under G.S. 160A-31, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board accepted the Certificate of Sufficiency submitted by Town
Clerk Melissa Adams.
   E.   The board adopted the Resolution Fixing the Date of Public Hearing on
Question of the Cole Annexation Pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2, as Amended,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. Public Hearing to be held July 19, 2004 at
7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   F.   The board adopted the Personnel Policy Amendment – Use of Town Owned
Equipment, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that the Town Attorney has
prepared a lease agreement with Sandhills Community College for the proposed
fire training center & classroom. The attorney has included a clause in the
lease agreement that has not been discussed by either party to the contract,
the town or Sandhills Community College. In condition #4 of the contract he has
added the Consumer Price Index rent increase every five years for the $12,000/
yr classroom. Much discussion followed. Commissioner Fields remarked he thought
this should be left in the contract, in order to protect the town’s interest.
Commissioner Waschsen commented that he thought it should be changed to every
ten years. After much discussion the board approved the Lease for the Fire
Training Center & Classroom with Sandhills Community College, as presented by
the Town Attorney, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. Four ayes. One nay. Commissioner Waschsen voted nay.
Motion carried. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, to present proposed lease to
Sandhills Community College, negotiate contract for the lease, and to report
back the board.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
Planning Board met June 3, 2004, copy of minutes attached. The Historical
Committee met June 10, 2004, no minutes provided.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Reporter John Chappell inquired about the needs of the Police Department,
pertaining to the proposed FY 2004 – 2005 Budget. Commissioner Fields replied
they had been adequately met.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
went into closed session at 7:45 p.m. The board went back into regular session
at 8:30 p.m. Mayor Caddell reported there was no action to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.
___________________________       ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem
JULY 19, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JULY 19, 2004
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday July
19, 2004 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the possibility of the
Carthage Fire Department purchasing vehicle extraction equipment.
   Present were Mayor Pro-tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Jean Riley, Mike
Waschsen, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Mayor Caddell was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Public
Works Director Junior Vest, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Fire Captain Chad Thomason,
and Fire Lt. Jason Love.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.
   Fire Chief Brain Tyner and Captain Chad Thomason addressed the board
concerning a recent training session held on vehicle extraction, and the
possibility of the Fire Department procuring extraction equipment to assist the
Carthage Rescue Squad. Chad Thomason reported to the board that presently the
Rescue Squad has fifteen members, all of which are not active, and very
outdated equipment. Currently, they only have two members who are ERTs
(emergency response technicians). The Fire Department has six members who are
ERTs and four members who are EMTs. Both Brian and Chad assured the board that
it was the desire of the Fire Department to work with the Rescue Squad, and be
able to assist them, not compete with them. Both felt that the best thing for
the citizens was full cooperation between the two organizations.
   Fire Chief Tyner presented three options, copy attached, which is and does
become part of these minutes. The first option was purchasing a minimum of
necessary equipment at a cost of approximately $13,229.00, second option, with
an additional piece of equipment was proposed at approximately $19,955.00, and
the third option, with two additional pieces of equipment was proposed at a
cost of approximately $23,901.00.
   Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning the possibility of the two
organizations merging. Commissioner Lapping felt it was important to seek out
the opinion of the Rescue Squad, before proceeding with any plans to purchase
any of the proposed vehicle extraction equipment. Commissioner Lapping
communicated it was very important to try and not cause any conflict between
the Fire Department and the Rescue Squad.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that the Fire Department had purchased
some of the items budgeted for in the new FY 2004-2005 budget, before the
previous budget had ended, with left over funds. Therefore, they will have
approximately $8,000.00 they would be able to put towards the purchase of the
proposed equipment. Furthermore, Carol remarked that they could cut back some
line items within their budget to make up the difference, in order to have
funds to be able to go with option one.
   Discussion followed, concerning the possibility of a merging of the Fire
Department and the Rescue Squad, with the general consensus of the board in
favor of the two departments working together. However, the board felt that the
Fire Department should meet with representatives of the Rescue Squad before any
further action should be taken.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton directed Fire Chief Tyner to open a dialog with the
Rescue Squad, meet with them and then report back to the board at the August
meeting.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton adjourned the Special Meeting at 6.31 p.m.
________________________________       ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor ProTem
JULY 19, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 19, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
July 19, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Jean Riley, Sherwood
Lapping, Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A quorum. Mayor Larry Caddell was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest,
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and town employee Donald
Dowdy. Concerned citizens present were Mr. & Mrs. Ron Mohr, Christie Cole,
Shirley Cole, and from the Pilot Newspaper, reporter John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton recognized Donald Dowdy as the “Employee of the Month” for
the month of June. The board commended Donald for the exemplary job he does for
the town.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton opened the Public Hearing at 7:05 p.m. on the request of
Annexation from Christie Cole. The property is located on Hwy 15-501, next to
the property of Wayne Caddell, which was recently annexed into the corporate
limits of Carthage. The tract of land contains approximately 2.00 acres and is
contiguous with the town limits. Mayor Pro-Tem closed the Public Hearing at 7:
07 p.m. The board approved the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the
Town of Carthage for the property of Christie Cole, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields, and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Approval of Minutes Regular Meeting June 21, 2004.
   B.   Budget Amendments #21, #22.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Police Chief
Chris McKenzie informed the board that this years “National Night Out” will be
held at Nancy Kiser Park, on August 3, 2004 at 5:30 p.m. Additionally, Police
Chief McKenzie reported on the status of the cameras for the park. Chief
McKenzie remarked the computer system for the cameras was in place and the
cameras have been ordered. Hopefully, they will be in operation by August 3, in
order to show the public at the “National Night Out” cookout.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning the cemetery. Carol reported the
town only has 22 vacant spaces available to sell. Someone is interested in
purchasing 11 of those plots. It was recommended to investigate the possibility
of having the timber on a 17.24-acre tract cut, and using the funds to clear
and survey the additional plots needed for the cemetery. Carol gave an update
on the status of the Nick’s Creek dam, commenting that she had received a
letter from J.H. Carter. The NCLM Conference in Raleigh was discussed. Town
Clerk Melissa Adams to get information to those board members wanting to attend
the conference. Finally, Carol informed the board that two employees dropped
their dependant insurance coverage, due to the increase this year.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The Annexation Ordinance for Christie Cole had already been approved.
   B.   It was decided to ask Moore County to reappoint ETJ Planning Board
members Max Muse and Bob Hunt, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved the Capital Reserve Resolution to maintain the
operation of the water plant and existing water and sewer capital equipment,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved the RBC Centura Bank Resolution for Purchasing and
Financing Police Car, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
It was decided to discuss the proposed lease contract with Sandhills Community
College for a fire training center and classroom in closed session.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
It was noted the Planning Board had meet July 15, 2004, copy of minutes
attached. The Carthage Historical Committee had met on July 15, 2004, no
minutes provided. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood gave an overview of upcoming
future economic development/residential development plans in Carthage.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Riley commented on the Holly trees downtown, remarking on the
improved appearance. Commissioner Fields communicated that the State needed to
be contacted about the debris in the curbing on Hwy 15-501 at the ABC store.
Commissioner Fields inquired about the proposed traffic light at the
intersection of Hwy 15-501 and Priest Hill Road, remarking that Town Manager
should contact Will Garner with DOT to find out what the status of the light
is.
XII.   COMMENTS FORM THE PUBLIC: 
John Chappell commended the Carthage Police Department as well as the Carthage
Fire Department on the excellent job they did handling a recent accident.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1): 
The board moved into closed session at 7: 40 p.m., following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board reconvened the Regular meeting at 8:30 p.m. Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton reported that no action was to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.
_____________________________      ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem
AUGUST 16, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 16, 2004
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday August 16, 2004 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping, and Jean Riley. A quorum. Commissioner
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Police Officer John Gibbons, and Director of Public Works Junior
Vest. Concerned citizens present were Mr. & Mrs. Ron Mohr, Mr. & Mrs. Ronnie
Sineath, David Wheatley, and several citizens from Pinehurst Avenue. Also
present from the Town of Southern Pines was David White.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor Pro-tem Walton led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Mayor Caddell presented the “Employee of the Month” award for the month of July
to Police Officer John Gibbons. Mayor Caddell and the Board commended Officer
Gibbons for a job well done.
Town Manager remarked that Mr. Ronnie Sineath had asked to speak concerning the
speeding and littering on his street Pinehurst Avenue. Mr. Sineath reported
that the speeding and the littering has become such a problem, that he felt it
necessary to come ask for help from the board. Mr. Sineath was in possession of
a petition signed by his neighbors on Pinehurst Street, which is and does
become part of these minutes. Mr. Sineath indicated he felt that the speeding
was mainly County employees as well as, employees of the retirement home. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood informed the board that Police Chief McKenzie had
written a letter to County Manager Steve Wyatt, requesting that he discuss the
issue with County employees, and notifying him that the Police Department will
be concentrating on that area, and that they will be issuing speeding tickets.
It was suggested that Chief McKenzie discuss this issue with the Moore County
Sheriff, as well. Mayor Caddell informed Mr. Sineath that the town now
maintains Pinehurst Street, and they can lower the speed limit to 25 miles per
hour, presently it is 35 miles per hour. It was decided to lower the speed
limit on Pinehurst Street from 35 miles per hour to 25 miles per hour, and
signs will be put up as soon as possible, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried. Mr. Sineath thanked the board for considering his concerns.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting July 19,2004
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting July 19, 2004
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
A.   David White, Director of the Southern Pines Recreation Department
addressed the board concerning a request from the Town of Southern Pines for an
easement near Nick’s Creek and Highway 22. The approximate 30-foot easement
will provide for a parking lot for their walking trail. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood reported the board had a copy of a letter in their packets, from J.D.
Monroe, NCDENR, stating that they had no objections to the proposed use of the
easement. Commissioner Lapping inquired about security measures, as well as,
park maintenance and trash receptacles. Mr. White replied that the Town of
Southern Pines employs full-time part maintenance people, and there is a gate
that is locked at night. The walking trail is open from dusk till dawn.
Commissioner Lapping made a motion to grant the easement to the Town of
Southern Pines, providing that the easement does not interfere with the
application process for the permanent dam permit. The motion died due to a lack
of a second. It was decided to table this until the next regular meeting in
September. Commissioners Lapping and Fields to arrange a meeting with Mr. White
to review the proposed location of the easement. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
will speak with Jay Carter, to confirm that the easement will not interfere
with the application for a permanent dam permit.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
A copy of the Carthage Historical Committee meeting minutes July 15, 2004 is
attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Riley inquired about the status of moving the historical kitchen
behind the Carthage Museum. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that she was
not sure if there was enough room behind the museum. Rolland Gilliam had
volunteered to move the kitchen. Carol is to follow up with Roland Gilliam.
Commissioner Riley opened discussion concerning changing the board’s regular
meeting time to 6:30 p.m.. After some discussion it was decided to leave the
regular meeting time at 7:00 p.m.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
Mr. David Wheatley, owner of a new business in town, Wheatley’s Truck Repair,
addressed the board, concerning a sign for his business, he had recently
purchased. Mr. Wheatley informed the board, he was not aware of the town’s sign
ordinance when he purchased the sign. He inquired about placing the sign at a
location, other than where his business is located. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood replied that the town sign ordinance does not allow off premise
signs.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)(6):
The board went into closed session to discuss personnel, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes.
Motion carried. The board moved into closed session at 6:55 p.m. The board
reconvened the regular meeting at 7:30 p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked that no
action was to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 7:30 p.m.
____________________________      ______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor   
SEPTEMBER 20, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 20, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
September 20, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Mike Waschsen, Jean Riley and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Officer John Gibbons, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, and Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr.
   Concerned citizens present were Loretta Mohr, Hattie Simonson, Peggy
Stewart, Nancy Douglas, Rosa Douglas, Coy Gladden, Jr., Bethany Harper, Clara
Bowles, Marie Stutts, Gail Stutts, Nancy Overton, Mark Burgess, and Donna
Burgess.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:06 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Elyse Cochran of the Moore County Chamber of Commerce spoke to the board
concerning the Chamber’s commitment to the Town of Carthage. She invited
everyone to a Legislator’s reception, hosted by the Chamber, to be held on
December 9, 2004 at National Golf Club.
Due to his absence, a brief reception to be held in honor of Sammy Taylor was
postponed.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mark Burgess is requesting a Conditional Use Permit to construct two triplex
units located at 225 and 235 Wallace Street. Mayor Caddell opened the Public
Hearing at 7:20 p.m. Town Clerk Melissa Adams swore in the citizens wishing to
speak concerning the request. Nancy Douglas addressed the board with her
concerns for the proposed triplex units on Wallace Street. Ms. Douglas informed
the board she was concerned about the possible traffic hazards caused by having
an additional six families living on Wallace Street. Ms. Douglas indicated her
neighborhood was quiet, and she did not wish to see that change. Another
concern was parking. Ms. Douglas reported that she has problems right now, with
people parking in the street, and she feels that it will worsen with the
addition of six more families. Finally, Ms. Douglas indicated she was concerned
over where the children will play. She does not feel there will be room for
play areas in the yards of the proposed triplex units for the children and they
will play in the street. Next to speak was Mr. Coy Gladden, Jr., a frequent
visitor to Wallace Street. He repeated the earlier concerns over the traffic
problems, parking issues, and play areas for the children. Bethany Harper
reiterated the same concerns. Ms. Harper reported that she has experienced
trouble with renters located on Wallace Street, and that she was opposed to the
proposed triplex units. Ms. Clara Bowles commented that she agreed with
everyone that has spoken so far. Marie Stutts spoke concerning problems with
dogs in the neighborhood, as well as the children playing in the street. Gail
Stutts remarked that homeowners have an investment in their neighborhood, and
they want to take care of it and have good relations with their neighbors, and
that she feels renters do not. Ms. Nancy Overton commented that after hearing
everyone speak, she was in favor of the proposed triplex units. Ms. Overton
communicated to the board she wants to see progress for the town. Mayor Caddell
closed the Public Hearing at 7:55 p.m.
The board decided to deny the request from Mark Burgess for a Conditional Use
Permit to construct two triplex units on 225 and 235 Wallace Street, based on
the following finding of fact; all conditional use permit criteria listed in
Section 100.44 of the Zoning Ordinance cannot be met; the proposed use would be
detrimental to the use of or development of adjacent properties or other
neighborhood uses, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded
by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting August 16, 2004.
   B.   Budget Amendments #1, #2.
   C.   Budget Transfer #A.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board approved appointing Mayor Pro-Tem Walton as the voting
delegate for the North Carolina League of Municipalities Conference October
24th, 25th, and 26th and Commissioner Riley as the alternate, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Mr. Richard Geoff, from Sandhills Community College addressed the board
concerning the possibility of the College purchasing the 6.5 acres that they
previously wanted to lease from the town for the Fire Training Center. After
some consideration however, he reported that the College feels it would need at
least ten acres. There was some discussion concerning other property in the
surrounding area that is for sale. Mr. Geoff indicated that the College would
investigate the property for sale by Pete Dowd, adjacent to the Municipal
Building.
   B.   The board voted to approve the Easement with the Town of Southern Pines
for a walking trail parking lot, next to Nick’s Creek, provided it does not
interfere with the town’s application for a permanent dam, following a motion
made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes.
Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A copy of the Carthage Historical Committee Meeting August 12, 2004 is
attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Waschsen commended Director of Public Works Junior Vest for doing
a great job for the town. All other Commissioners were in agreement. Mayor
Caddell reported that the Planning Board has requested that the Zoning Code
Enforcement violations be addressed as soon as the Police Department is back up
to staff.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Ms. Hattie Simonson addressed the board concerning the rising cost of the water
and sewer bills. Mayor Caddell explained that for so long the town ran the
water department at a loss, money had been transferred from the General Fund to
subsidize the operation of the Water and Sewer Fund. The increase on water and
sewer charges should generate enough revenue to operate the Water & Sewer Fund
with out having to transfer money from the General Fund. Ms. Simonson thanked
Mayor Caddell for his explanation.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried. Meeting
was adjourned at 8:35 p.m.
_____________________________      ___________________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 20, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
SPECIAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 20, 2004
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board held a joint
Special Meeting on Monday September 20, 2004 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald
Building in Carthage.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a joint work session with the
Planning Board to review the concept and ideas for Accent Design for a portion
of Little River Development, and to review the preliminary site plan for
McDonald’s.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping, and Mike Waschsen, Planning Board
Chairman Ron Mohr, Planning Board Members Connie Burns, Max Muse, Percy
Degraffenreid, Marvin Hamer, Vernon Kelly, and Chris Lassiter. Bob Hunt was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
concerned citizens John Whitlock, Loretta Mohr, and from the Pilot newspaper
John Chappell.
   Present from Accent Design were Jess & Kathee Dishner, Danny Adams, and
Colin Webster.
   Chairman of the Planning Board Ron Mohr called the meeting to order at 6:04
p.m.
   Colin Webster, with Accent Design began with a power point presentation
concerning the proposed development at Little River. Mr. Webster gave a
presentation which included two concepts; one residential one retail, Market
Square and Market Place. Market Square, formally known as Wads Creek, is the
planned residential development, which includes approximately 82 lots. The
homes will be close to the streets, with sidewalks and off street parking in
the rear. Most of the homes will be accessed by rear alleyways. The plan
includes very detailed landscaping, sidewalks and bike trails throughout the
development. Market Place is the proposed retail portion of the development,
which would possibly include a bank ATM machine, a coffee shop, florist, and
office spaces.
   Commissioner Fields mentioned having a police/fire/rescue sub-station
located out at Little River. Mayor Caddell reiterated that it has been
discussed in the past that there would be some sort of provision made to
accommodate a sub-station at Little River. Mr. Webster remarked that was
certainly a possibility and they consider that idea. Reporter John Chappell
asked if they were to be the exclusive builders for Little River, how would
that affect someone who owns a lot, who wished to use another builder? Mr.
Webster replied that the lot owner would have the option of choosing another
builder, however they would have to meet certain criteria set by Accent.
   After much discussion among the two boards and the representatives of Accent
Design, it was decided to approve the concept of Market Square and Market
Place, following a motion made by Planning Board Member Marvin Hamer and
seconded by Planning Board Member Vernon Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Accent Design will try to prepare a preliminary plat for approval within the
next week. The Planning Board may call a Special Meeting to approve the
preliminary plat.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood presented the preliminary plat for the proposed
McDonald’s, to be located next to Kerr Drug. It was noted they are in
compliance and are not asking for any variances.
   There being no further business to discuss, the meeting was adjourned at 6:
55 p.m.
                  ________________________________
                  Ron Mohr, Chairman Planning Board
NOVEMBER 15, 2004
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 15, 2004
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
November 15, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Carthage Historical Committee
Members Carol Steed, and Helen Mohan. Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr was also
in attendance.
   Concerned citizens were Loretta Mohr and Charles Dattillo.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
There were none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:05 p.m. Town Clerk Melissa Adams
explained that the town is now required to adopt a Flood Prevention Ordinance
and participate in the National Flood Insurance Program in order to qualify for
FEMA assistance. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:08 p.m. The board
voted unanimously to adopt the Resolution of Intent – Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried. The board voted to adopt the
Resolution Proclaiming Acceptance of the Moore County Flood Plain Ordinance ,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting Planning Board/Board of Commissioners September
20, 2004
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting September 20, 2004
   C.   Budget Transfer #B
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:  
Copy attached, which is and does becomes part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
Items A and B have already been adopted previously in the meeting.
   C.   The board unanimously adopted the Grant Resolution for the North
Carolina Governor’s Highway Safety Program, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields, and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   D.   Charles Dattilo spoke concerning the recent change in the speed limit
on Pinehurst Avenue. Mr. Dattilo remarked that many people who drive to work on
Pinehurst Avenue have been complaining about the reduction in the speed limit,
and that they have been receiving tickets. After some discussion it was decided
to leave the lower speed limit on Pinehurst Avenue.
   E.   The board approved the Amendment to the Minimum Housing Code, with
changes to 105-19 (c) (A) (4) the word frequent to be changed to any; 105-19
(c) (B) (7) the wording repeated use changed to any use, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   F.   The board approved the changes to the By-Laws for the Carthage
Historical Committee, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   The board approved the amendment to the parking penalty section of the
Town Ordinance Chapter 70: Section 70.99-Penalty, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   H.   It was decided due to the Holidays there would not be a Regular Board
of Commissioner’s Meeting in December. The Regular January Meeting will be
changed to Tuesday January 18, 2005, due to the Martin Luther King Holiday on
Monday January 17, 2005, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS: 
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
A copy of the Carthage Planning Board Meeting October 7, 2004 and November 4,
2004 are attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Fields remarked that the decoy police car should be moved more
frequently.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board moved into closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields at 7:38 p.m. Mayor Caddell
reconvened the Regular Meeting at 8:15 p.m. remarking there had been no action
taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:16 p.m.
____________________________      ______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
2005 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 4, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 4, 2005
4:30 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Tuesday
January 4, 2005 at 4:30 p.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building. The purpose of
the special meeting was to review and discuss the preliminary plans for Ron
Jackson’s Subdivision Savannah’s Garden.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, and Town Clerk Melissa
Adams.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 4:40 p.m. Discussion began
concerning the multi-family dwellings proposed within the subdivision. Mr.
Jackson has plans to build 151 single-family homes and 51 townhouses on the 60-
acre development. He also plans to construct a replica of Camelot Park in
Pinehurst, as well as a soccer field.
   Commissioner Fields remarked that he had a problem with the multi-family
portion of the project, specifically, the townhouses. Commissioner Fields
informed the board he wanted to hold a public hearing, concerning the proposed
townhouses, allowing the public and surrounding property owners a chance to
come and voice their opinions on the project. Mayor Caddell communicated that
the town homes were a permitted use, and it was not necessary to hold a public
hearing. There was much discussion concerning this issue, with Commissioner
Fields strongly voicing his opinion against the townhouses. Mayor Caddell
remarked that clearly, Commissioner Fields has a conflict of interest in this
matter, as his property is next to the proposed project. Commissioner Walton
commented on previous development in town, stating that he was against it,
however if it is permitted, there is not anything the town can do to stop it.
Commissioner Riley indicated she felt the same. Commissioner Lapping remarked
that the proposed townhouses are permitted, therefore, if the town did anything
to stall, or stop the project, we would be inviting a lawsuit. Commissioner
Fields spoke concerning the minimum square footage on the townhouses; there is
presently no minimum, furthermore, he would like to see multi-family dwellings
changed to conditional uses. The board agreed this should be taken under
consideration, as well as other areas within the subdivision ordinance that may
need to be corrected. Mayor Caddell asked that the Planning Board discuss these
issues at the next Planning Board meeting.
   There was discussion concerning possible locations for multi-family
dwellings, such as a project like Robins Walk in Aberdeen. Mayor Caddell
indicated that he would like to see such a project come to Carthage, as there
was a need for the retired community.
   There was discussion concerning the installation of the infrastructure
within Ron Jackson’s proposed subdivision. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
informed the board
that no Certificates of Occupancy can be issued until all the infrastructure is
completed for each phase. The general consensus of the board was to accept the
preliminary plat for Savannah’s Garden.
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 5:45 p.m.
____________________________         ______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JANUARY 18, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 18, 2005
7:00 P.M
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Tuesday January 18, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Jean
Riley, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Mayor Larry Caddell was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Sgt. Michael Hardin, and his wife Holly Hardin,
Police Officer Rick Bickel, Police Officer Justin Garner, Police Officer Edwin
Garner, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Firefighter Steven Barker, Firefighter Brian
Whitaker, and Firefighter Chris Chisholm.
   Also present were Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr, Loretta Mohr, and from
Cherry Bekaert & Holland Eddie Burke, C.P.A.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
Police Chief Chris McKenzie presented the “Officer of the Year” award to Sgt.
Michael Hardin. This is Sgt. Hardin’s second time to receive this award. The
board commended Sgt. Hardin for a job well done. Eddie Burke, CPA presented the
FY 2003-2004 Audit to the board, copy attached which is and does become part of
these minutes.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping, and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting November 15, 2004
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting January 4, 2005
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The date for the Budget Retreat was scheduled for Thursday February 24,
2005 from 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
   B.   The board approved of the list of candidates for appointment on the
Carthage Historical Committee. The committee has openings for five people. The
Historical Committee will submit the names of the five new members to the board
for appointment.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
The board approved the purchase of extrication equipment option #1 at the cost
of the demo price $12,225.00, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields
and seconded by Commission Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
A copy of the Carthage Planning Board Meetings for December 14, 2004 and
January 13, 2005, and the Carthage Historical Committee Meeting January 11,
2005 are attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields informed the board he would like to have a moratorium
placed on multi-family dwellings. A Public Hearing was set for the Regular
Meeting on February 21, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. Commissioner Lapping communicated
that Leary Construction had done an excellent job on the water tank.
Commissioner Waschsen commended code Enforcement Officer Annie Mazura for all
her hard work on code enforcement.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
Pilot Reporter John Chappell commented on some of the new businesses in town,
and informed the board Attorney Dusty Rhoades is moving an office into the Old
Carthage Furniture Building.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
None
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
The board adjourned at 7:35 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
_______________________________   ____________________________
      Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W. C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem
FEBRUARY 21, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 21, 2005
7:00 P.M
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday February 21, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr, and his wife Loretta Mohr, Planning
Board member Vernon Kelly, Brigett Brown from Life Care Pregnancy, and Raymond
Doby, Robert Cook, and Ruby Hendricks from the Moore County Veterans Office.
   Concerned citizens present were Milton Dowdy, Roland Gilliam, and from the
Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
Brigett Brown, Executive Director of Life Care Pregnancy spoke concerning their
newly opened office in Carthage. Ms. Brown explained that Life Care was
formerly known as Pregnancy Support Services in Southern Pines. They are a
volunteer organization that provides a support system for unplanned and crisis
pregnancies. Ms. Brown informed the board she wanted to come and introduce
herself and her organization to the board members and indicated that her
organization was very pleased to be located in Carthage.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Moratorium on Approvals of Multi-Family Dwellings Within Established
Residentially Zoned Districts and Within Subdivisions Within the Town of
Carthage and the ETJ. Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m.
There was much discussion concerning whether or not there was a need for a
moratorium. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:20 p.m. The board
decided to table the Resolution Establishing A Moratorium on Multi-Family
Dwellings, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting January 18, 2005
   B.   Budget Transfers C & D
   C.   Budget Amendments 3 & 4
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS: 
   A.   The Resolution Establishing a Moratorium on Multi-Family Dwellings had
been tabled.
   B.   Mr. Raymond Doby addressed the board concerning the request for a site
for a Moore County Veteran’s Memorial Park. There was much discussion
concerning a possible location at the Carthage Municipal Building. It was
decided the members of the board and the members of the Veteran’s Memorial
Committee would meet at the Municipal Building at 8:15 a.m. on February 24,
2005 before the Budget Retreat.
   C.   Mr. Roland Gilliam addressed the board concerning a request for a
waiver on paving a section of a road leading from the runway to a newly
constructed house located at the airport. Mr. Gilliam explained that the person
building the house is locked into a special interest rate, and must close on
the house within sixty days. The weather has prevented the paving company from
paving the street and he is worried the paving cannot be completed before the
closing date on the home. Therefore, he is asking that the town grant him a
waiver on the paving, in order to get a certificate of occupancy from Moore
County. The town’s Subdivision Ordinance requires that streets must be
completely paved before a certificate of occupancy can be issued. After some
discussion the board approved granting a one – time exemption under the
following conditions; the money for the cost of the paving be paid to Riley
Paving Company, and paving must be completed within six months, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. Four
ayes. One abstention. Commissioner Riley abstained. Motion carried.
   D.   The board adopted the Proclamation for the Konevets, a Russian male
quartet, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Walton and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood explained about the request for payment on
re-striping the Presbyterian Church parking lot, reporting that in 1997 the
town paid for a portion of the paving in order to provide more parking for the
downtown area. The church recently re-striped the parking lot, however they did
not include the area next to the McDonald Building. The church has asked that
the town pay half of the cost of the re-striping. After much discussion it was
decided that the Town Manager should go ahead and authorize payment of one-half
of the cost, however she should inquire with Moore County and try to negotiate
with them to see if they would be willing to pay one third of the cost. If this
comes up again in the future the bills should be split between the town, the
Presbyterian Church and Moore County.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
The Planning Board did not met in February.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Fields asked that Town Manager Carol Cleetwood inquire with the
State DOT concerning re-striping around the Courthouse. Commissioner Riley
reported to Police Chief Chris McKenzie concerning the number of people who
park in front of the outside mailboxes at the Post Office. Chief McKenzie
remarked he would vigorously step-up the number of tickets written for parking
in front of the mailboxes.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
Roland Gilliam stated he needed to meet with Police Chief McKenzie and the DOT
concerning the proposed move of the Tyson Kitchen to the Carthage Museum.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into a closed session to discuss legal matters/personnel at 8:00
p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Caddell reconvened the Regular Meeting at 8:45 p.m. Mayor Caddell
remarked no action had been taken in closed session.
Commissioner Lapping rescinded his earlier motion concerning the wavier of
paving for Roland Gilliam. The board agreed to allow Moore County to issue a
Certificate of Occupancy on the new house at the airport, following these
conditions; prior to the Certificate of Occupancy being issued Roland must
present to the town a signed contract with a licensed paving company, and
deposit a certified check for the amount of the paving payable to the Town of
Carthage; the check will be held in escrow; and the sewer tap fees must be
paid, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:50 p.m.
___________________________      _____________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 24, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET RETREAT
FEBRUARY 24, 2005
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Retreat on
Wednesday February 24, 2005 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Fire Department
located within the Carthage Municipal Building.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a Budget Work/Shop – Retreat for the
fiscal year 2005 –2006.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A
full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest,
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart
Davis, Don Strickland from Phillips Ford, Gary Stainback from Hydro Management,
and Kristin Daggett from TAC American.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:30 a.m.
   Mayor Caddell gave the invocation.
   Discussion and work session began concerning the upcoming 2005 – 2006
Budget. Commissioner Lapping went on record stating that he felt that the
privilege license fees should be increased, they are regulated by state law and
he felt the legislature should study the issue of increasing them.
There was much discussion concerning possible additional revenues. There was
some discussion concerning increasing the water rates for high usage over
10,000 gallons a month. The board discussed increasing the water and sewer tap
fees. Commissioner Lapping made a motion to increase the water and sewer impact
fees to $1000 each, and the commercial impact fees be based on the meter size.
The motion died due to lack of a second. It was decided that these fees needed
to be increased, however, no decision on how much was made.
Kristin Daggett gave a presentation concerning TAC Energy Solutions, and how
they can help the town replace old meters. They can even help the town find
grant money to replace the meters.
Mr. Gary Stainback from Hydro Management spoke concerning Hydro Management
taking over the day-to-day operating of the water plant.
Mr. Don Strickland from Phillips Ford talked about having a fleet management
program for the town’s patrol cars.
   The board spent the day reviewing the proposed items to be considered for
the FY 2005 – 2006 budget, copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 5:00 p.m.
_____________________________         ____________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MARCH 14, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET RETREAT
MARCH 14, 2005
3:30 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Retreat on
Monday March 14, 2005 at 3:30 p.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located
at 4396 Hwy 15-501.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a Budget Work/Shop for the fiscal
year 2005 – 2006.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping, Jean Riley, and Mike Waschsen. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, and
Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates.
   Mayor Caddell opened the meeting at 3:40 p.m. and gave the invocation.
   Bill Lester From Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates explained to the board that
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates is working on completing a hydraulic model for the
town’s water & sewer system. Bill Lester then began discussion concerning new
water tanks and booster pump. Bill Lester indicated the town needed two new
water tanks, one located out on Union Church Road, and one located closer to
the Little River Development. Bill Lester detailed the possibility of the town
being able to get a matching grant from the Rural Center, that would benefit
Little River, to pay for the water tank and help pay for a portion of upgrading
the sewer, at Little River. Little River would pay the portion of the matching
grant back to the town in the form of impact fees. It was noted there would
need to be an agreement drawn up and reviewed by the town attorney. After much
discussion, it was decided to proceed with the grant application process,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Bill Lester gave an update on the Nick’s Creek Dam project, as well as the
possibility of constructing an additional town pond, located close to the
Nick’s Creek dam. Bill Lester will have Jay Carter walk the property to get a
feel for how much of it is in the wetlands before preceding any further.
   Director of Public Works went over a list of fire hydrants that were in need
of repair, or replacement. It was decided to consult the Fire Department to
implement a three-year program to replace and repair the hydrants listed; Fire
Department to pay for the hydrants and Public Works doing the installation.
   After some discussion it was decided to proceed with Hydro Management taking
over the operation of the water plant by May 1, 2005, until June 30, 2005, at
which time the contract will be reviewed, and with a maximum cap of 5% on
yearly increases, following a motion made by Mike Waschsen, and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   After discussion concerning the Fleet Management program it was decided that
the town would proceed with the Fleet Management program, for six patrol cars,
with the extended warranty, the surplus cars are to be sold, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mike Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   After discussion it was decided to raise the impact fees for residential
construction to $1000 for water, and $1000 for sewer and commercial cost will
be an ascending schedule based on the size of the meter, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. Four ayes.
One nay. Commissioner Fields voted nay. Motion carried.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 5:30 p.m.
________________________________      _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MARCH 21, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 21, 2005
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday March 21, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Mike Waschsen, Sherwood Lapping and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Pastor Jim Boyte, Milton T. Dowdy, and reporter John
Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Pastor Jim Boyte gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES:   
   A.   Archie Kelly was not present. It was noted that the problem he had with
Moore County in obtaining a building permit had been resolved.
   B.   Rita Booth was not present. She had asked to be placed on the agenda in
order to discuss the large truck traffic around the courthouse and to request
that the town inquire into changing the parking around her business to angled
parking. It was noted that nothing could be done about the large truck traffic,
because it is a state road. However, it was decided to have Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood request that the state study the feasibility of changing the parking
to angled parking all the way around the courthouse.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting February 21, 2005
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Retreat February 24, 2005
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Retreat March 14, 2005
   D.   Budget Transfer E
   E.   Budget Amendment #5, #6, #7
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board adopted the Resolution of Intent to close a portion of
Saunders Street and a portion of Holt Street, requested by Sam Riddle and set
the Public Hearing for Monday April 18, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   B.   Mr. Milton T. Dowdy addressed the board concerning a request to have an
extension of paving on Jermason Drive. In 1998 Mr. Dowdy had been told by the
board that the road had to be paved within eighteen (18) months of having his
property located on Jermason Drive rezoned from RA-40 and R-10 to RM-10. Mr.
Dowdy explained he had been working with the Department of Transportation in
trying to get the road paved. Mr. Dowdy told the board he wanted to get a
certificate of zoning compliance in order to place a mobile home on one of the
lots on Jermason Drive for his son. The board approved allowing an extension on
the paving requirement for Milton T. Dowdy following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   Ray Ogden of Partners In Progress was not able to attend the meeting.
His request to speak to the board will be tabled until the April meeting.
   D.   The Ordinance to Amend the Carthage Zoning Ordinance Chapter 100.39;
proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of the
zoning ordinance in effect in the area to be subdivided and any other
officially adopted plans was unanimously approved following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried. This would mean that any subdivision built in the R-10, R-20, or RA-40
residentially zoned areas, multi-family dwellings would be Conditional Uses.
   E.   The letter requesting funding for the Community Block Grant Program was
approved and signed by all members of the board, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley.
      All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:  
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
The minutes of the Carthage Historical Committee are attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes. It was noted that the Planning Board did not meet
in March.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Fields commended the Police Department on a job well done for the
capture of the bank robber. Commissioner Lapping remarked about the county –
wide disaster exercise recently held at New Century Middle School. Mayor
Caddell thanked Police Chief McKenzie for moving the patrol car more often.
Mayor Caddell also remarked that Director of Public Works Junior Vest had the
town looking good.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
Jim Boyte thanked the town for all their support for the up-coming spring
festival at the Gospel Chapel.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1)(6):
The board went into a closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. The board reconvened their
regular session at 8:00 p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked there was no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m.
____________________________      ____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 4, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 4, 2005
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Monday April
4, 2005 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building.
   The purpose of the meeting was to Adopt Resolution to Submit an Economic
Infrastructure Grant Application to the North Carolina Rural Center.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Commissioners Jean Riley, Sherwood
Lapping, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem W. C. Walton
was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, and Town Clerk Melissa
Adams.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:32 a.m.
   Discussion began concerning the grant application. It was noted that the
grant is a matching grant. The Rural Center will give the town $400,000 towards
a water tank which will benefit the Little River development. Little River will
in turn pay $400,000 in the form of impact fees, totaling the amount of the
matching grant. Mayor Caddell remarked he felt that Little River, LLC (Bobby
Blanche) should receive some sort of compensation for paying the impact fees in
the amount of $400,000. There was much discussion. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
informed the board that she thought that Little River had already installed
approximately 40 water/sewer taps, in the area that was formally known as Wads
Creek.
   The board voted to Adopt the Resolution to Submit an Economic Infrastructure
Grant Application to the North Carolina Rural Center, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley.
   After discussion the board approved granting credit to Little River, LLC,
(Bobby Blanche) up to the amount of $200,000, repayment in the form of credits
for water and sewer taps that have already been made, back taxes on the barns,
and any infrastructure that he builds; the town will deed the barns back to
Little River (Bobby Blanche), following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping,
and seconded by Commissioner Riley. Commissioner Waschsen inquired about the
sub-station that was promised to the town for the Police and Fire Departments.
It was noted there is mention of that several times in the minutes. Motion
carried.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:55 am.
____________________________         __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 18, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 18, 2005
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday April 18, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Jean Riley, Mike
Waschsen, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Mayor Larry Caddell
was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Director of Public
Works Junior Vest, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Sergeant John Gibbons, Police
Detective Michael Hardin, and Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr.
   Also present were Moore County Planner Ben Warren, from Partners in Progress
Ray Ogden, Reporter from the Moore County Independent Jim DeSart, Reporter from
the Pilot John Chappell, Sam Riddle, Loretta Mohr, Bob Stafford, Chris Lambert
& family members.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Police Chief Chris McKenzie announced that he had a special presentation to
award to Moore County Animal Control Officer Chris Lambert for his help in the
recent apprehension of the suspected bank robber of the BB&T. Chief McKenzie
highlighted the events leading to the capture of the alleged bank robber.
Police Chief McKenzie detailed that Chris Lambert had detained the suspect
until local law enforcement could arrive. Chief McKenzie remarked that Mr.
Lambert is an auxiliary Police Officer for Candor. It was with great pleasure
that Chief McKenzie presented Mr. Chris Lambert with a “Citizenship Award”. The
Board of Commissioners thanked and congratulated Mr. Lambert.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Request from Sam Riddle to re-zone two lots LRK #6874 and LRK #6876
from RM-10 “Residential Mobile Homes – 10,000 square foot lots to B-
2 “Business-2”. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton opened the Public Hearing at 7:06 p.m. It
was noted that the property was located behind Riddle Equipment Company. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that Public Hearing notices had been mailed to
adjoining property owners and no one had contacted the town. Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton closed the Public Hearing at 7:08 p.m. The board approved the request
for re-zoning two lots LRK #6874 & LRK #6876 from RM-10 to B-2 following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Request from Sam Riddle to close a portion of Saunders Street (formerly
Cameron Street) between Bruce Street and Canary Street and a portion of Holt
Street between Saunders Street (unopened) and Canary Street. Mayor Pro-tem
Walton opened the Public Hearing at 7:08 p.m. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
informed the board that certified letters had been mailed to all adjoining
property owners and it had been advertised in a local newspaper for four
consecutive weeks. The town had not received any opposition to the proposed
street closings from any of the adjoining property owners. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton
closed the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting March 21, 2005.
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting April 4, 2005.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Action on the request for re-zoning from Sam Riddle had already been
taken.
   B.   The board adopted the Resolution Ordering the Closing of a Portion of
Saunders Street (formerly Cameron Street) Between Bruce Street and Canary
Street in Carthage, NC, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board adopted the Resolution Ordering the Closing of a Portion of
Holt Street Between Saunders Street (unopened) and Canary Street in Carthage,
NC following a motion made by Commissioner Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning the presentation of a
preliminary plat submitted by Mr. Bob Stafford for a proposed subdivision known
as Cabin Branch. The proposed subdivision would be located on Union Church
Road, just across from New Century Middle School. Mr. Stafford intends to build
72 homes, on approximate ½ acre lots. Sewer is not available however, Mr.
Stafford would want the town to provide water service, and annex the property
into the town limits. Mr. Stafford has met briefly with Director of Public
Works Junior Vest and Bill Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, to go over
the water infrastructure improvements that would be needed. Mr. Stafford had
presented the preliminary plat to the Planning Board on April 7, 2005. Mr. Ron
Mohr, Chairman of the Planning Board informed the board that the Planning Board
had voted to recommend to the board approval of the preliminary plat, with the
recommendation that there be another entrance/exit to be added in case of
emergencies, preferably off of Hulsey Road. Mr. Stafford arrived at 7:28 p.m.
and informed the board a second entrance/exit would not be a problem. The issue
of a turning lane off of Union Church Road was discussed. The board was
concerned about the traffic at the school. Mr. Stafford had received a letter
from DOT, informing him he was not required to put in a turning lane because
the traffic count was not high enough. However he was considering a
deceleration lane anyway. There was much discussion concerning the water issue.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that the possibility of a booster pump
and a water tank had been discussed. There are other interested parties with
similar plans that may wish to go in on the cost of a water tank. The board
decided that the over-all preliminary plat looked good, however, before any
decision could be made, they would need to hear a report from Engineer Bill
Lester, from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates concerning the upgrades that would
need to be done to the water infrastructure. The board agreed with the
recommendation of the Planning Board concerning the requirement of a second
entrance/exit, as well as recommending that some sort of a turning lane be
installed. Commissioner Fields informed Town Manager Carol Cleetwood about
money that the state has for funding called “safe money” for turning lanes,
etc., remarking that she should write a letter to Secretary of Transportation
Mr. Lindo Tippett. Mr. Stafford will proceed on with his proposed plans, meet
directly with Bill Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates concerning the water
infrastructure and come back to the board at the May meeting.
   E.   Ben Warren, a Moore County Planner was present to answer any questions
concerning a joint Resolution for Request of Projects in the 2007 – 2013
Transportation Improvement Plan. The board reviewed the maps presented. After a
brief discussion, the board adopted the Resolution for Request of Projects in
the 2007 –2013 Transportation Improvement Plan, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   F.   Mr. Ray Ogden from Partners In Progress spoke to the board highlighting
the accomplishments that his organization has had over this past year in
recruiting new businesses to Moore County and getting empty buildings occupied.
Mr. Ogden gave a synopsis of where Partners In Progress feels the county is
heading, what types of businesses and companies would blend well within our
community, and how they should go about attracting them. He also talked about
giving support to current businesses in Moore County and helping them to grow.
After Mr. Ogden’s presentation, the board indicated to Mr. Ogden that there was
money placed in the new budget for FY 2005 –2006 to continue the town’s support
of Partners In Progress.
   G.   After a brief discussion, the board accepted the audit proposal from
Sharrard, McGee & Co. for 2005 – 2007, copy attached, which is and does become
part of these minutes, following motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   H.   The board approved the Proclamation for Municipal Clerk’s Week May 1
through May 7, 2005, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
The minutes of the Planning Board Meeting April 7, 2005 are attached, which are
and do become part of these minutes. Chairman Ron Mohr spoke concerning
changing the Subdivision Ordinance to include a requirement that all major
subdivisions be required to have two entrances/exits. After some discussion,
Commissioner Lapping made a motion to hold a public hearing concerning this
proposed change to the Subdivision Ordinance, so that any major subdivision is
required to at least have an emergency secondary entrance/exit that would be
accessible during an emergency. Commissioner Riley seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
After some discussion it was decided to hold a Public Hearing on the Highway
Commercial District on Monday May 16, 2005 at 7:00 p.m.. The proposed area
would be from the bridge over-pass on Hwy 15-501 to the end of the town’s ETJ.
The set backs would remain at 50 feet, and parking would be allowed in front of
a business. The sign height would be 8’ or if replacing an existing sign up to
10 feet. Carol reported that she was trying to get a joint meeting together
with Nancy Roy from Cumberland County, the Planning Board, the Historical
Committee and the Board of Commissioners to discuss Low Impact Development.
Mayor Pro-tem Walton asked if Carol would invite Moore Buddies to come to one
of our meetings and explain who and what kind of organization they are.
Commissioner Riley thanked Police Chief McKenzie for the effort being made to
stop the parking in front of the drop box at the Post Office. Commissioner
Fields inquired about the stripping of the parking spaces around the courthouse
square. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood replied that Sanford Stripping is coming
within the next few days to give us a quote.
XII.   COMMENTS FORM THE PUBLIC: 
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
The meeting adjourned following a motion made by Commissioner Riley, and
seconded by Commissioner Fields. Meeting adjourned at 8:15 p.m.
______________________________      ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W. C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem
MAY 16, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 16, 2005
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Workshop
on Monday May 16, 2005 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Ronnie Fields arrived
at 6:30 p.m.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Director of Public
Works Junior Vest, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, and
Reporter from the Moore County Independent Newspaper Jim DeSart.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
   Mayor Caddell inquired about the amount needed from fund balance in order to
have a balanced budget. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood and Finance Officer Linda
Phillips explained that roughly $31,000.00 was needed from the fund balance to
balance the budget because of some of the extra expenses that will be incurred
for FY 2005-2006. A few of those expenses are the fleet management program for
the police cars, $10,000.00 is for the new street sweeper, the addition of
holiday pay for the Police Officers, hiring two part-time fire fighters, and
the cost of adding the pay per call for the volunteer firefighters.
   Next, Fire Chief Brian Tyner gave a presentation to the board on the
justification of hiring two part-time employees, highlighting the various
testing that the Fire Department is required to do on a monthly, quarterly and
yearly basis. Furthermore, when there is a fire call, if the Fire Chief is
alone, he cannot leave until there are two people on a truck. The general
consensus of the board was that they were in favor of including the expenditure
for two part-time employees in the FY 2005-2006 budget.
   Next, Town Manager Carol Cleetwood went over possible additional new
revenues. One possible new revenue source was to increase the garbage fee.
Presently it is $8.00 a month for once a week pick-up. The rate that BFI is
going to charge for 2005-2006 is going to increase 6%, due to the rise in the
cost of gas. After discussion concerning the proposed rate increases for
garbage, it was decided to leave the monthly fee for pick-up at $8.00 a month.
Next, the proposed increase in water rates for high water users was discussed.
By increasing the rate for customers that use over 10,000 gallons, additional
annual revenue of approximately $41,000.00 could be realized. The board was in
favor of this; the new rate will be reflected in the proposed new budget for FY
2005-2006.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie spoke concerning the addition of the holiday pay
for the Police Officers, citing that this is part of a three step policy
designed to upgrade the pay and benefit package for Police Officers. It was
decided that a check could be done once a year, before Christmas for this.
Discussion followed concerning the new fleet management program for the new
police cars.
   After discussion, it was decided to hold the Public Hearing for the proposed
FY 2005-2006 Budget, and the Regular Meeting on Monday June 13, 2005.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 6:58 p.m.
________________________________      ______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MAY 16, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 16, 2005
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday May 16, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping, and Jean Riley. A quorum. Commissioner
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also in attendance were Gary Stainback, and David McKew with Hydro
Management, Melinda Hawkins, and Carol Pate with Moore Buddies, John Chappell,
reporter with the Pilot, Jim DeSart, reporter with the Moore County
Independent, concerned citizens present were Ron Jackson, Al Schirkolk, Mark
Lemmond, and Wayne Caddell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:10 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES: 
   A.   Carol Pate and Melinda Hawkins spoke concerning their organization
Moore Buddies. Ms. Pate and Ms. Hawkins gave an overview of their organization
explaining that they are a private non-profit agency that works with troubled
and at risk youth and their families. They also work directly with the Juvenile
court system to provide support for youth who are in trouble with the law.
Moore Buddies operates a mentoring and tutoring program, as well as the be a
Pal program. Mayor Caddell thanked Ms. Pate and Ms. Hawkins for attending the
meeting and explaining their organization to the board.
   B.   Kelly Buie was not present.
   C.   David McKew and Gary Stainback reported to the board about the
operations at the water plant during the last 2 ½ weeks.
   D.   Fire Chief Brain Tyner gave a report on the activities for the Fire
Department for the past year.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:40 p.m. The Public Hearing
was to amend the Carthage Subdivision Zoning Ordinance Chapter 95.61 to require
that all major subdivisions (over 5 lots) have a secondary emergency entrance/
exit. Mr. Ron Jackson informed the board that the Town of Aberdeen recently has
had problems with such a requirement in their ordinance and had to change it ,
due to neighbors not wanting a secondary entrance/exit. It was noted that this
was not meant to be a thoroughfare, but only an emergency way to get in or out
of a subdivision if the need arose. The secondary entrance/exit would be
blocked from normal usage. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:45 p.m.
The board approved the amendment to the Carthage Subdivision Zoning Ordinance
Chapter 95.61, requiring major subdivisions to have a secondary emergency
entrance/exit, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes motion carried.
   B.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:45 p.m. The purpose of the
Public Hearing was to amend the Carthage Zoning Ordinance – definitions and
permitted uses to include Highway Commercial District (HCD). Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood opened discussion concerning this proposed addition to the zoning
ordinance, remarking that the only major changes from Thoroughfare Business
District to Highway Commercial District are the sign regulations, requiring
freestanding signs be no higher that 8 ft., a maximum area of 32 sq. ft., signs
must be at least 12 ft. from the right of way, and drive ways would be required
to be interconnected. The set backs would remain the same as in the “TBD”
district. Wayne Caddell questioned about the liability of interconnecting the
driveways. Commissioner Lapping remarked it would be no different than it is
for a parking lot, you could only be liable for negligence and only to your
property line, not for motor vehicle accidents that may happen. Mayor Caddell
adjourned the Public Hearing at 7:58 p.m.
The board approved the Zoning Amendment – Article IV Definitions and Permitted
Uses to include Highway Commercial District (HCD), following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:58 p.m. to consider
rezoning from Thoroughfare Business District to Highway Commercial District the
Highway 15/501 corridor from the Vass Carthage overpass, south on Highway 15/
501 to extend to the end of the Town of Carthage Extra Territorial
Jurisdiction. It was noted that Public Hearing Notices had been mailed to all
the property owners and advertisement in the newspaper once a week for two
weeks. There was no opposition. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:59
p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting April 18, 2005.
   B.   Budget Amendment #8, #9.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The amendment to the Town of Carthage Subdivision Ordinance Chapter
95.61 – Secondary Exits to Major Subdivisions had already been approved.
   B.   The Ordinance to Amend Article IV Chapter 100 – to add “HCD” Highway
Commercial District had previously been adopted.
   C.   The board approved re-zoning the Highway 15/501 corridor from the Vass
Carthage overpass, south on Highway 15/501 to extend to the end of the “ETJ”,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved the Speed Limit Modification Ordinance following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board approved the Ordinance to Adopt Article 50 - Water and Sewer
Use Ordinance following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Fields.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
Mayor Caddell asked about the meeting on Low Impact Development. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood remarked she would get in touch with Nancy Roy and see if she
would be able to attend the board meeting on June 13, 2005. The board will hold
a Public Hearing on the FY 2005-2006 Budget on June 13, 2005 at 7:00 p.m.,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The minutes of the Carthage Historical Committee Meeting April 19, 2005 are
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Riley remarked that the cemetery is looking good. Commissioner
Lapping spoke to the Police Department concerning registered sex offenders. He
indicated he would like to see a program developed to educate children and
parents on how to avoid becoming a victim. Furthermore, he would like to see
neighborhoods notified of registered offenders living within a community.
Police Chief McKenzie informed the board that there was a program in place at
this time to educate the children, and he has information on registered
offenders.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
There were none.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into a closed session at 8:25 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board moved back into regular session at 8:53 p.m. Mayor Caddell
remarked there had been no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:53 p.m.
____________________________      _____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JUNE 13, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 13, 2005
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday June 13, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr,
and Planning Board Members Vernon Kelly and Chris Lassiter.
   Concerned citizens present were Phil Keith, Leon Keith, from the Moore
County Independent reporter Jim DeSart, and from the Pilot reporter John
Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:15 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   A.   Phillip and Leon Keith have requested to appear to ask for a change in
the zoning in the Central Business District. The proposed change would be to
amend mini-warehouses from a Use Not Permitted to a Conditional Use. In 1988
they were granted a Conditional Use to construct either four or four and one
half units on the lot situated at the corner of Saunders and Marion Streets. In
1995 they asked to place another unit on the property, and they were issued a
certificate of zoning compliance. They poured a concrete pad for the unit,
however they did not complete the project. When the town adopted a new Zoning
Ordinance in 1998, mini-warehouses were made a Use Not Permitted in the Central
Business District. The certificate of zoning compliance that was issued in 1995
was only valid for two years. The Keith’s addressed the board remarking that
the reason the project was not competed was due to low occupancy at that time.
They made a business decision not to pursue the project. Business has since
increased and they are here to ask for the Zoning to be changed so that they
could complete their project. After a brief discussion, it was decided to deny
the request from Phillip and Leon Keith to amend the Zoning Ordinance to make
mini-warehouses a Conditional Use in the Central Business District following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Mr. Theodore Covington has not here to address the board concerning his
unusually high water bill. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood informed the board he
used over 15,ooo gallons this past month. His normal usage is 4,200 gallons. We
have read his meter three times and the reading is correct. No leak is showing
at this time. The board decided he would have to pay the bill.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Caddell called the Public Hearing to order at 7:30 p.m. The purpose of
the Public Hearing is to consider adoption of the Town of Carthage FY 2005 –
2006 Budget. It was noted by Town Manager Carol Cleetwood that the Town
Manager’s Budget Message should read Town Finance Officer’s Message. That she
should not take the credit for all the hard work Linda does. The entire board
commented on the great job Linda does as Finance Officer. Mayor Caddell closed
the Public Hearing at 7:35 p.m. The FY 2005 – 2006 Budget was adopted, as
presented, copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes, which
included the fleet purchase of six Police Department vehicles through Ford
Motor Company, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
Mayor Caddell informed the board that Commissioner Lapping had an item to add
to the Consent Agenda, Item E. – Trust Agreement between the Town of Carthage
and the Carthage Century Committee, Inc. for the “Carthage Commerce Park”. The
board approved adding Item E, to the Consent Agenda, as well as approving the
following items following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting May 16, 2005.
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting May 16, 2005.
   C.   Budget Transfers #F, #G, #H, #I.
   D.   Budget Amendments #10, #11.
   E.   Trust Agreement.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood discussed her meeting today with a representative from Division
of Water Quality, Fred Tarver, Division of Water Resources, Jay Carter, Bill
Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, and herself. The main hold up is the
Fish & Wildlife. They are concerned about three species of fish that live in
the river. After several hours of discussion at the meeting it was decided that
they would process the permit as soon as they are in receipt of the plans for a
Terraced Weir, that will accommodate the three species of fish. Bill Lester and
Jay Carter will design the Weir and submit the plans as soon as possible. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that the USDA grant money runs out the end of
June. She will report that the dam permit is forthcoming, and ask for an
extension on the grant. Mayor Caddell indicated he would like to set up a
meeting sometime within the next couple of weeks to go over the plans for
expenditures of the grant money.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board had previously adopted the FY 2005 – 2006 Budget earlier in
the meeting.
   B.   The board approved the Amendment to the Personnel Policy concerning
Holiday pay for employed Police Officers, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   The board approved the Mutual Aid Agreement between the Carthage Fire
Department and the Carthage Rescue Squad, following a motion made by
Commissioner Waschsen, and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The minutes of the Planning Board Meeting June 2, 2005 are attached, which are
and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields inquired about the replacement of Planning Board member
Marvin Hamer, who has recently resigned. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported
that a new member would have to reside within the town limits. Mayor Caddell
indicated he may have a recommendation for the next regular meeting in July.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
There were none.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (1) (6):
The board moved into Closed Session at 8:00 p.m., following a motion made by
Commissioner Waschsen. The board reconvened the Regular Meeting at 9:15 p.m.
There was no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:15 p.m.
____________________________      ____________________________
Melissa P.   Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor        
JUNE 28, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
LITTLE RIVER CLUBHOUSE
JUNE 28, 2005
6:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Tuesday June 28, 2005 at 6:00 at the Little River Golf Clubhouse located at 145
Farm Club Drive.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the Police Department
Governor’s highway Safety Program Grant, Water Conservation and possible plans
for the expenditure of the 2002 Rural Center Grant.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Ronnie
Fields was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Philips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, from the Moore County Independent, reporter Jim DeSart,
from the Pilot, reporter John Chappell, and from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates
Bill Lester.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie gave a brief overview of the $101,000.00
Governor’s Highway Safety Program Grant that has recently been awarded to the
town of Carthage. Chief McKenzie indicated that the town has to make a
commitment to accept the grant by July 25, 2005. Chief McKenzie explained this
is a four-year grant, similar to the COPS Grant, with the first year funding at
100% for two officers, and 75% for equipment. In the fourth year of the grant
the town would take over funding at 100%. Chief McKenzie went on to explain
that because this is a highway safety grant, the cars as well as, the officers
would have to be identified as a “traffic enforcement team”. Chief McKenzie
indicated that the overall cost to the town for the first year would be no more
than $8,500.00 for the equipment. After a brief discussion, the board approved
the Governor’s Highway Safety Grant following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning the idea of implementing
voluntary water conservation. Due to a lack of rain, recently, as well as an
indication from the Division of Water Resources that voluntary conservation
would be looked at very favorably, in regards to our dam permit application.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood went over a report from Hydro Management
concerning the water plant, and how much they have been pumping from Nick’s
Creek. Furthermore, she indicated that she would like to mail out notices, and
mail a copy to Mr. Woody Yontz. After a brief discussion it was decided to
defer the decision on this issue until later in the meeting, so that other
options could be explored.
   Bill Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates informed the board the Division
of Water Resources would be very impressed with the idea of the town
implementing voluntary conservation
   Bill Lester opened discussion concerning the possible expenditures for the
2002 Rural Center Grant. Bill Lester informed the board he felt the priorities
for the grant money were; install a water line connection from Nick’s Creek to
the Town of Southern Pines Reservoir, construct the dam spillway per DEHNR
specifications, and lastly develop a plan for enlarging the reservoir at the
water plant. There was much discussion concerning these items. Bill Lester
stressed that the work needed to be done at the dam, and improvements should be
done to the water lines to Southern Pines. If there is enough money left over
then the town can look at dredging the reservoir located at the water plant.
Discussion followed.
There was discussion concerning a new water tank, and possible locations. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood mentioned she had been contacted by someone who may be
interested in donating land for the water tank.
Mayor Caddell reported he wanted to go ahead and get the estimates for the
proposed expenditures, put them in writing and put them out for bids.
   The board decided to go forward with the three projects Bill Lester had
recommended; the water line connection from Nick’s Creek to the Southern Pines
Reservoir, construct a dam spillway per DEHNR specifications, and develop a
plan for enlarging the reservoir at the water plant, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton.
   It was noted that Bill Lester would hold off on the spillway, until we are
sure the dam is approved by the State.
   Mayor Caddell remarked he wanted Carol to put something in the next
newsletter promoting the restaurants in town.
Due to scheduling conflicts for some of the board members it was decided to
cancel the Regular Meeting July 18, 2005.
   Commissioner Lapping made a motion to go into Closed Session to discuss the
possible sale of real estate. All ayes. Motion carried. The board went into
Closed Session at 8:00 p.m.
   The board went back into Special Session at 8:20 p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked
there was no action taken.
   The meeting was adjourned at 8:20 p.m.
________________________________      ______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
AUGUST 5, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 5, 2005
4:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting Friday, August 5,
2005 at the Municipal Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood and Finance Officer Linda
Phillips,
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   TOWN OF CARTHAGE POLICE CARS:
After much discussion from the Mayor and all Commissioners present concerning
the color of the new police vehicles purchased under the fleet program for the
year, Commissioner Lapping made a motion to have the police cars that were not
white repainted white and striped like the other patrol vehicles and that in
the future all police vehicles purchased will be white and striped unless one
is for undercover purposes and approved for that purpose by the board. Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton seconded the motion. The motion passed by three ayes and one
nay.
   The Mayor and Commissioner Fields requested that it be noted that they did
not agree with the motion.
   Commissioner Lapping requested that before the next regular meeting a work
session be scheduled to discuss police department policy.
IV.   FINISTAR INVESTMENT COMPANY:
Finance Officer, Linda Phillips reported that Finistar representatives had
contacted her about the Town signing up with their Company and investing some
of the Town’s funds. Discussion among the Mayor and other board members was not
to change any of the investments as they now stand and to notify Finistar the
Town is not interested.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA-ANNEXATION FOR STAFFORD LAND COMPANY AND IPC
CORPORATION:
The board approved the following items subject to a booster pump being
installed for water flow after a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Resolution directing the Clerk to investigate a petition received under
G.S. 160A-31.
   B.   Certificate of Sufficiency
   C.    Resolution fixing date of public hearing on question of annexation
pursuant to G.S. 160A-52.8, as amended.
VI.   MOORE COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN:
The board Approved the Resolution for the Moore County Hazard Mitigation Plan
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   AUGUST 15TH REGULAR MEETING:
Following a motion by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton, the August 15th meeting has been canceled with the retirement reception
for John Whitlock to proceed as planned. All ayes. Motion carried.
________________________________      ______________________________
Linda Phillips, Deputy Clerk            Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
AUGUST 8, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
EMERGENCY MEETING
AUGUST 8, 2005
6:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held an Emergency Meeting on
Monday August 8, 2005 at 6:00 p.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located
at 4396 Hwy 15-501 in Carthage.
   The purpose of the Emergency Meeting was to discuss and take possible action
concerning the Town of Carthage Police cars.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Ronnie Fields, and Mike Waschsen. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and Police Captain Bart Davis.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   MOTION TO RE-OPEN ISSUE OF CARTHAGE POLICE CARS:
The board approved re-opening the issue of the Carthage Police cars, following
a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   DISCUSSION CONCERNING POLICE CARS:
Commissioner Lapping began by communicating that back in March, in one of the
weekly reports to the board from the Police Department, Chief McKenzie had
stated they were going to purchase two unmarked SUVS. There was discussion
concerning the present policy concerning town vehicles. Commissioner Lapping
remarked that he thought the policy was that all town vehicles are to be marked
with the town seal, or decal, with the exception of under cover vehicles.
Commissioner Fields explained that an unmarked car is not necessarily an under
cover car. One of the reasons a department has unmarked cars is so that a
Police Officer can observe a possible crime in progress with out causing
attention to himself, such as a possible bank robbery. Commissioner Fields
remarked there are numerous reasons for having unmarked vehicles, they can be
valuable tools for a Police Department. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton explained his
reasons for making the motion on Friday to paint and stripe the three unmarked
cars. First he felt like this was an opportunity to give the Police Department
back to the citizens of Carthage. The visibility of the Police Department has
not been good, and he would like to see that improve. There was much discussion
concerning the pros and cons of having unmarked cars. Commissioner Lapping and
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton both indicated they wanted to see the visibility of the
Police Department improve, and in order to facilitate this, the new cars needed
to be white and striped. It was decided to bring Chief McKenzie and Captain
Bart Davis in to talk with the board concerning the decision to order different
colored unmarked cars. The board also decided they had several other issues
that they would discuss with Chief McKenzie, such as the visibility issue, and
the issue of the security cameras at the park. Chief McKenzie and Captain Davis
joined the meeting. Chris began by stating emphatically that he would have
never done anything intentionally to upset the board. He never thought the
color of the vehicles was an issue. Furthermore, Chief McKenzie communicated
the importance of having unmarked cars. Mayor Caddell stated he agreed a couple
of the cars should be unmarked. However, he wants the citizens to know the
Police Department is out there serving them, and they need to be more visible
in town. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton spoke to Chief McKenzie concerning how the board
entrusts Carol, as Manager with all the departments in town, and that all the
departments should work together as a team. Chief McKenzie replied he was not
aware that this was not the case, he was not aware of any problems.
Commissioner Waschsen explained that he felt like the issue with the cameras at
the park had a lot to do with the perception that there was not cooperation on
his part. Chief McKenzie accepted full responsibility for the cameras not being
installed at the park. Mayor Caddell explained what the park meant to him,
personally, and when the park is vandalized, it hurts him. Mayor Caddell
emphatically stressed he wanted the cameras installed at the park, and the park
cleaned up, furthermore, the board wanted the visibility of the Police
Department to improve, as well as the issue of the parking in front of the Post
Office. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood asked Chief McKenzie to explain why they
need three people in the office on a daily basis. Chief McKenzie explained that
in the past couple of years, because of the growth of the town, the caseload
has increased so much. Furthermore, he explained Det. Mike Hardin was on a
rotating schedule. Det. Hardin was not in the office every day 8-5 Monday
through Friday. Commissioner Riley interjected that she would like to see more
of the Police Department on foot patrol, at the shopping center, etc. and be
more visible. The board thanked Chief McKenzie and Captain Davis for coming and
speaking with them. There was much discussion concerning the cost of repainting
the cars. Town Manager Cleetwood informed the board that in order to have them
painted properly, there would have to be a lot of disassembly. After much more
discussion, the board voted to paint and stripe two of the new vehicles, one
being the SUV, with Chief McKenzie making the decision of which one of the two
Crown Victorias would be painted and striped, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, three ayes, two
nays. Motion carried. Commissioner Fields and Commissioner Waschsen voted nay.
V.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 7:55 p.m.
__________________________      ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 19, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 19, 2005
7:00 P.M.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday September 19, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Jean
Riley, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Mike
Waschsen was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, David McKew from
Hydro Management, and Mr. Cedoin Odom from the Moore County Disabled Veteran’s.
Concerned citizens present were Roy Burt, Robert Sullivan, John Cleetwood,
David Craft, Jean Garner, John Barber, Max Williams, Bobby Livengood, James
Tepatti, Jaleel Feggins, William Tyson & family.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   A.   David McKew from Hydro Management addressed the board and presented an
update on the water plant. Mr. McKew went over several monthly monitoring
reports for the Carthage water plant.
   B.   Mr. Roy Burt spoke to the board concerning an ongoing problem he has
had with his mail. Mr. Burt lives in Carthage, but his mail is addressed
Whispering Pines. Mr. Burt has tried unsuccessfully to get the Postal Service
to correct his address. He is appealing to the board to try to get it
straightened out. Mayor Caddell informed Mr. Burt that the town would draft a
letter to the Carthage Postmaster and Congressman Howard Coble, and make an
appointment to meet with the Postmaster.
   C.   Mayor Caddell introduced a young man Jaleel Feggins, which he wished to
honor for saving the life of an elderly lady. During the summer, Jaleel was
passing by another house on to his way home, and heard a sharp tap on the
window, followed by someone crying out in pain. Jaleel looked in the window and
saw a lady on the floor. He went home and told his mother, who in turn called
the police. He and his Mom went back to the house and Jaleel held her hand
until help arrived. Mayor Caddell spoke to Jaleel, thanking him for his brave
action. Mayor Caddell told Jaleel to come by the Carthage Municipal Building to
pick up his certificate honoring him as an honorary citizen for his courageous
action.
   D.   Mr. Cedion Odom from the Disabled American Veterans spoke to the board
concerning their desire to add on to the building they lease through the town.
Mr. Odom explained the proposed addition would assist their organization by
adding much needed space for large functions. Mr. Odom expressed that the
desired goal is to have a veteran’s park located at the facility. Mayor Caddell
remarked that if the town can obtain a letter from the town attorney, that the
addition would not invalidate the lease, the addition would be approved.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Anx 01-05 Stafford Land Company, Inc. – Mayor Caddell opened the Public
Hearing at 7:40 p.m. Mr. Bob Stafford has petitioned to annex into the Carthage
town limits a tract containing 51.08 acres on Union Church Road. The petition
for non-contiguous annexation was approved by the board on August 5, 2005.
Notice has been advertised in the newspaper and mailed to adjoining property
owners. Mr. Stafford plans to develop the property into an upscale housing
subdivision, after the property is annexed. It was noted that Mr. Stafford was
not in attendance. There were a few adjoining property owners who were present
to inquire how the proposed annexation would affect their property. Jean Garner
who lives on Union Church Road asked about the entrance to the proposed
subdivision, as well as the traffic problem near the schools during the early
morning, and afternoon hours. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood informed Ms. Garner,
that DOT has issued a driveway permit, for the main entrance off of Union
Church Road. An emergency entrance/exit would be off of Hulsey Road.
Additionally, Mr. Stafford plans on installing a turning lane on Union Church
Road, even though it was not required by DOT. Questions were raised concerning
the subdivision having septic tanks. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that
an environmental study has to be completed, and the County would not issue
permits for septic systems if there were going to be any adverse effects on the
surrounding property. The proposed subdivision will have town-supplied water.
Mayor Caddell remarked that if any one within that area had a problem with
their well, the town would sell them water. Mayor Caddell closed the public
hearing at 7:50 p.m. The board approved the proposed annexation of 51.08 acres
on Union Church Road, on the condition that Mr. Stafford submit a letter to the
town indicating that he would be responsible for the expense of a water booster
pump if necessary, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Anx 02-05 IPC Corporation – Mayor Caddell called the public hearing to
order at 7:50 p.m. The IPC Corporation has petitioned to annex into the
Carthage town limits a 160 acre tract of land on Union Church Road. The
petition for non-contiguous annexation was approved by the board on August 5,
2005. Mr. James Tepatti, Land Manager for IPC Corporation was present. The
property will be developed into a housing subdivision once the annexation is
approved. Mr. Tepatti indicated that the proposed subdivision will be done in
five phases, with the first phase having approximately 20 building lots. Mr.
John Barber inquired about the entrance to the proposed subdivision. Mr.
Tepatti remarked that DOT has approved an entrance approximately 1500 feet from
the school property. Mr. Barber inquired about the size homes. Mr. Tepatti
remarked that the minimum size would be 1500 square feet. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood spoke concerning a list of covenants for the proposed subdivision,
stating that it is very strict. Additionally, there would be a generous buffer
of trees left around the property. Water would be supplied by the town to this
subdivision, but they would have to have septic systems. Mayor Caddell closed
the public hearing at 8:02 p.m. The board approved the annexation on the
condition that Mr. Tepatti submit a letter stating that the IPC Corporation
would be responsible for the expense of a water booster pump if necessary,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Request for Rezoning – Williams – Maxime and Erlene Williams have
requested that the board rezone a 1.34-acre parcel, LRK # 7105, located at 140
Legion Hut Road, from RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq. ft. lots” to
HCD “Highway Commercial District”. Mayor Caddell opened the public hearing at
8:02 p.m. Legal notice had been advertised in the newspaper and notices mailed
to adjoining property owners. It was noted that the surrounding property along
the Hwy 15-501 corridor is zoned HCD. Mayor Caddell closed the public hearing
at 8:03 p.m. The board approved the request for rezoning for Maxime & Erlene
Williams, LRK #7105, from RA-40 to HCD, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Request for Rezoning – Livengood - Bobby and Irene Livengood have
requested that the board rezone a .34-acre parcel, LRK # 3756, located at 148
Legion Hut Road, from RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq. ft. lots” to
HCD “Highway Commercial District”. Mayor Caddell opened the public hearing at
8:03 p.m. Legal notice had been advertised in the newspaper and notices mailed
to adjoining property owners. It was noted that the surrounding property along
the Hwy 15-501 corridor is zoned HCD. Mayor Caddell closed the public hearing
at 8:04 p.m. The board approved the request for rezoning for Bobby & Irene
Livengood, LRK #3756, from RA-40 to HCD, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting June 13, 2005
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting June 13, 2005
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting June 28, 2005
   D.   Minutes Special Meeting August 5, 2005
   E.   Minutes Emergency Meeting August 8, 2005
   F.   Budget Transfer #J FY 2004-2005
   G.   Budget Amendments #12, #13 FY 2004-2005
   H.   Budget Amendment #1 FY 2005-2006
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board had previously adopted the Stafford Annexation Ordinance.
   B.   The board had previously adopted the IPC Corporation Annexation
Ordinance.
   C.   The board had previously approved the request for rezoning for Maxime &
Erlene Williams from RA-40 to HCD.
   D.   The board had previously approved the request for rezoning for Bobby &
Irene Livengood from RA-40 to HCD.
   E.   The board voted to change the October Monthly Regular Meeting date from
Monday October 17, 2005 to Monday October 10, 2005 at 7:00 p.m., following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion Carried.
   F.   The board appointed Mayor Pro-Tem Walton as the voting delegate and
Commissioner Lapping as the alternate at the NCLM Conference in Hickory October
16, 17, and 18, 2005, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   The board reappointed the following Planning Board Members for a three-
year term; Ron Mohr, Percy Degraffenreid, and alternate Vernon Kelly, following
a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
The minutes of the Planning Board Meeting August 4, 2005 and the Carthage
Historical Committee Meeting August 9, 2005 are attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Lapping spoke about the recent events concerning Hurricane
Katrina, remarking that the town of Carthage needs to meet and go over our
disaster plan. The board scheduled a Special Meeting to be held on Tuesday
October 11, 2005 at 8:00 a.m. to meet and discuss the Town of Carthage disaster
plan. There was discussion concerning the old Carthage swimming pool. It was
decided to discuss this at the Special Meeting and get Lanora Maness to meet
with the board concerning the pool.
XII.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:27 p.m.
_____________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 10, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 10, 2005
6:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
October 10, 2005 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
and Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Concerned citizens present were Robert Sullivan, Lenora Maness, John
Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper, and Walter Taylor from the Moore County
Independent.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to hold a work session to hear a
report on the Police Department and to discuss the Carthage Swimming Pool with
Lenora Maness.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie went over the details of the Police Department
Report, copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
   Police Chief McKenzie gave an update on the recent robbery at the BP
Station. Chief McKenzie reported there has been an arrest in the case, with two
more forthcoming. Chief McKenzie stressed that Captain Davis and Corporal Brant
Phillips have worked diligently to bring this case to a close.
   Chief McKenzie touched on the Moore County Fair, remarking that it was
relatively uneventful, with only one arrest. Due to the rain, the crowds were
down from last year.
   Chief McKenzie reported on the vandalism at Nancy Kiser Park, reporting that
since several of the juveniles suspected of causing the damage at the park have
moved, the vandalism has stopped. Furthermore, Chief McKenzie reported that the
skate boarders have permission to use the parking lot of the First Presbyterian
Church. This has stopped a lot of the problems the Police Department has had
with the skate boarders. It was decided to check into purchasing extra heavy-
duty plastic trashcans for the park. The security system at the park will be
discussed during the Regular Meeting.
   Chief McKenzie reported that the front desk of the Police Department has an
updated list of registered sex offenders available for public inspection.
Additionally, within the next few months, there will be a link added to the
Police Department website that will provide a list of all local registered sex
offenders.
   Chief McKenzie detailed that due to the cost of gas, the Police Officers had
modified the patrolling of the neighborhoods somewhat, but they have increased
the foot patrols during business hours in the business district.
   Next was discussion with Lenora Maness concerning the Carthage swimming
pool. Mayor Caddell communicated to Ms. Maness that the town would like to take
over ownership of the pool, and get an estimate on the repairs that would be
needed to get it operable again. If the repairs were going to be too costly to
the town, then the town would explore other options, such as filling it in.
Lenora reported that since the drought several years ago the pool has not been
opened or operational, and that there are many repairs that need to be
addressed. Lenora communicated that the past couple of years, there has been no
participation in the membership of the pool. Furthermore, there are debts owed
between $4000 and $5000. After much discussion it was decided to form a
committee consisting of Commissioner Fields, Commissioner Lapping and Lenora
Maness to work on getting estimates to study the feasibility of the town
repairing the pool, and running it, and to take care of the necessary
requirements in order for the town to take over ownership.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 6:50 p.m.
______________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk          Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 10, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 10, 2005
7:00 P.M.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday October 10, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Jean Riley, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Other present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, and Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr.
   Concerned Citizens present were Robert Sullivan, Harriett Riley, John Riley,
and Pricilla McCray.
   Also present were Elyse Hillegass from the Moore County Chamber, MCLI
students Mike Hillegass, and Debbie Miriello, reporter John Chappell from the
Pilot, and Walter Taylor from the Moore County Independent.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Caddell called the meeting order at 7:05 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
Elyse Hillegass from the Moore County Chamber spoke to the board concerning
recent events involving the Chamber. Ms. Hillegass began by thanking the Town
of Carthage for their excellent support of the Chamber. Ms. Hillegass
highlighted several new ideas that the Chamber is currently working on; one of
which is putting together a marketing brochure for the local businesses, as
well as upcoming employee training seminars. Ms. Hillegass touched briefly on
the new insurance program offered to Chamber members. Mayor Caddell thanked Ms.
Hillegass for coming to speak to the board.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:15 p.m. Harriett Riley, along with
additional property owners has requested that the Town of Carthage rezone a
portion of a 34.30-acre tract, LRK #20000013 from Industrial to TBD
“Thoroughfare Business District”. The front portion of the property is already
zoned TBD, they want to make the whole portion TBD. It was noted that the
required advertising in the newspaper had been done, as well as notification
sent to adjoining property owners. The Planning Board has recommended that the
property be rezoned. Mr. John Riley spoke to the board, remarking that the
property is for sale and they just want to be pro-active in reaching a diverse
market, by having the property rezoned before an offer is placed on the
property. One adjoining property owner spoke, Pricilla McCray, inquiring what
the difference was between Industrial and TBD. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
replied that under the Industrial Zoning, it allows for businesses such as
Riley Paving, or any type of light factory industry. Under TBD Zoning, this
allows for a variety of businesses such as restaurants, and retail shops. Mayor
Caddell asked if there was anyone else who wished to speak. There was not.
Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:20 p.m. The board voted to change
the zoning from Industrial to TBD on the property owned by Harriett Riley, &
family, LRK #20000013, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting September 19, 2005.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood reported on the 1.9 inches of rain we have received, and showed
before/after pictures at Nick’s Creek. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported
that Bryan Maness will begin work on October 17, 2005 as Assistant Director of
Public Works.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board had previously approved the rezoning of the Harriett Riley
property from Industrial to TBD.
   B.   The board approved the Resolution of Intent to Close an Unopened
Portion of Cedar Drive, Oakdale Subdivision following a motion made by
Commissioner Riley and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   The board approved the purchase of a closed circuit television system
for Nancy Kiser Park from Central Security Systems, Inc. provided that an
additional two year warranty could be purchased, at a cost not to exceed
$4600.00, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board nominated Commissioner Riley to serve on the Board of
Directors of Partners for Children & Families, following a motion made by
Commissioner Waschsen and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported on the Nick’s Creek dam, remarking that
one item needed by the Corps of Engineers was a Declaration of Restrictions for
the wetlands mitigation. Following discussion, the board approved the
Declaration of Restrictions for wetlands mitigation, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The minutes of the Planning Board Meeting October 6, 2005 and the Carthage
Historical Committee Meeting September 13, 2005 are attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning the “Light up Carthage” project for
Christmas time, to promote business, and encouraged support for the project.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Reporter John Chappell commented on Robert Sullivan, who is running for town
Commissioner, attending the meetings.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 7:50 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:30 p.m. Mayor Caddell
remarked there was no action to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.
_____________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 11, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 11, 2005
8:30 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Tuesday October 11, 2005 at 8: 30 a.m. in the Carthage Fire Department.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Jean Riley, Mike Waschsen, and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Director of Public
Works Junior Vest.
   Present from the Moore County Independent was reporter Jim DeSart.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss and go over the Town of
Carthage Disaster Plan.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:40 a.m.
   Mayor Caddell gave the invocation.
      Commissioner Lapping drew attention to page 6, remarking that the town
needs to have maps with grids, available to give to first responders and to
have displayed on the wall in the Municipal Building. Commissioner Lapping
stated that the word should be changed to shall in paragraph 6, on page 6.
Furthermore, Commissioner Lapping pointed out that the Mayor and the Board of
Commissioner should be notified of any emergency and act in an advisory
capacity to the Town Manager.
   The board reviewed the pages containing the lists of equipment and changes
were made to reflect the addition or deletion of equipment.
   There was discussion concerning the siren downtown. It was decided that this
should be tested once a month, once a newsletter has been mailed out to the
citizens, notifying them of the plans to test the siren. It was also decided to
check into the cost of adding two additional sirens to cover Little River and
the schools on Union Church Road.
   Commission Lapping brought attention to the lack of public notice during an
emergency on the part of the radio stations. Jim DeSart will be the liaison to
work with the radio stations, and media to stop regular programming and
broadcast public information in the event of an emergency.
   It was also mentioned that the town should develop a simple liability/
release form for citizens to sign in the event there was a mandatory evacuation
and citizens did not wish to leave. The form could have a place for the
citizens to list relatives.
   There was discussion concerning the town’s generators. The Public Works
Department will test the generator purchased for the Municipal Building. It was
decided to explore the possibility of grants to purchase more generators for
the town. Additionally, Town Manger is to check to see if the town can legally
require Tara Plantation to have a back-up generator.
   There was much discussion concerning possible shelters, as well as possible
ways to notify the citizens of where shelters would be located as well as,
evacuation routes. Commissioner Fields stressed this was of the utmost
importance, to get the word out to the public, prior to an emergency.
   The board concurred that sometime in the future the town should meet with
Moore County to go over their plan, and the town’s plan, and possibly have a
countywide exercise to test the disaster plans.
   Mayor Caddell would like to see a survey or study done to locate the best
possible shelter locations, and safest buildings in town. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood will check into the possibility of having a graduate student work on
the survey.
   After discussion it was decided to have Commissioner Lapping act as advisor
to the Administrative Department, Commissioner Walton to advise the Public
Works/Water Department, Commissioner Fields to advise the Police Department,
Commissioner Waschsen to advise the Fire Department, and Commissioner Riley to
be the liaison with the local churches, and other outside agencies.
   After much discussion, it was determined that the board needed to have
another meeting to discuss the possibility of a manmade disaster, or act of
terrorism. The board will meet at 6:00 p.m. on the nights of the regular
scheduled monthly meetings to work on the disaster plan in more detail.
   The disaster plan will be updated to reflect the changes made.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:30 a.m.
_________________________         __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 21, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 21, 2005
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
November 21, 2005 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, and Ronnie Fields. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, and newly elected Town Commissioner Robert Sullivan. Also
present was Joan Poole from the American Red Cross.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to meet with Joan Poole, a
representative from the Red Cross, and discuss how the Red Cross can assist the
town, in the event of a disaster.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:24 p.m.
   Joan Poole began discussion concerning how the Red Cross would assist the
town in the event of a disaster. Ms. Poole indicated that the Red Cross works
closely with the County, as well as several restaurants and the VFW to serve
food in the designated shelters. These arrangements are set up in advance of
any disaster, or any need for assistance. Ms. Poole went on to explain that the
shelters are predetermined. There is a list of criteria for establishing a
shelter. The Red Cross determines if a location is a suitable location for a
shelter. Presently there are three established shelters in Moore County; New
Century Middle School, North Moore High School, and Southern Middle School.
There was much discussion concerning the Carthage Municipal Building possibly
being designated as a shelter.
   Ms. Poole went on to explain that due to expiration dates on items, as well
as storage problems, the Red Cross does not keep everything needed to run the
shelters on hand at all times. Ms. Poole indicated that it is easy for the Red
Cross to obtain the perishable items relatively quickly.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton inquired about the liability issue, should the
Municipal Building become a shelter. Ms. Poole remarked that the Red Cross
comes in and runs the shelters, so therefore they assume all liability in doing
so.
   After some discussion, it was decided that Ms. Poole would come and do an
inspection of the Municipal Building, and determine if it would make a good
location for a shelter. The board will make a decision whether to designate the
Municipal Building as a shelter, after Ms. Poole has done her inspection.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie presented the board with a map, prepared by the
County, with 20 different color coded sections. Furthermore, the County is
preparing a disc so that it can be used as a powerpoint presentation. Chief
McKenzie also indicated that each first responder will have a three ring binder
with all the information needed in order to respond to the emergency properly.
   It was decided that the board would not meet to discuss the disaster plan in
December, but would meet one hour early on the night of the regular January
meeting.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 6:55 p.m.
______________________________      __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 21, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 21, 2005
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday November 21, 2005 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Ronnie
Fields, Jean Riley, Mike Waschsen, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, and Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Also attending the meeting, Starla Hughes, and Connie Lassiter, from
Sharrard, McGee & Co., P.A., David McKew from Hydro Management, Mr. Hiram
Gilhousen, newly elected Commissioner Robert Sullivan, and from the Pilot
Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Waschsen led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
The board decided to add to the agenda one item under New Business; E. Contract
with Little River, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded
by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCES
   A.   Starla Hughes, CPA presented the FY 2004-2005 Audit. Ms. Hughes
highlighted several items of the audit, remarking that the town had obtained an
“unqualified or clean opinion” from the auditors. It was noted that the problem
of the segregation of duties, still remains the same even though it was not
cited in the audit.
   B.   David McKew from Hydro Management presented the monthly report for the
water plant. Commissioner Fields asked about the backwash at the water plant.
David McKew remarked that they backwash is about 9%, which is normal.
   C.   Theresa Jordan who had asked to address the board concerning downtown
parking, was not present. There was some discussion concerning possible
increasing the parking fines.
D. Billy Salmon had asked to be placed on the agenda to discuss his water bill
was not present. It was decided to put a new meter in for Mr. Salmon.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
A. Mr. Hiram Gillhousen had requested that an unopened portion of Cedar Drive,
in the Oakdale Subdivision be permanently closed. Mayor Caddell opened the
Public Hearing at 7:50 p.m. It was noted that certified notices were mailed to
surrounding property owners, as well as advertisement in the newspaper for four
consecutive weeks. No negative comment has been received from any adjoining
property owner. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:51 p.m. The board
adopted the Resolution to close the unopened portion of Cedar Drive following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting October 10, 2005
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting October 10, 2005
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting October 11, 2005
   D.   Budget Amendments #2, #3
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Fields remarked about the second police car, scheduled to be painted on
November 28, 2005. Commissioner Fields stated he had recently talked with
Captain Bart Davis, concerning the unmarked car. Captain Davis indicated the
Police Department has been using the unmarked car very successfully for various
police business; such as drug busts, and under-cover investigations, etc.
Commissioner Fields felt as though the benefit of having the patrol car
unmarked, far outweighed the benefit of having it painted and striped.
Commissioner Fields asked to have the previous decision to paint and stripe the
car reversed. Commissioner Fields made a motion to reverse the decision to
paint and stripe the police car, that it remain an unmarked car, Commissioner
Waschsen seconded. This started a heated discussion concerning the decision to
paint and stripe the unmarked car. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton remarked that he wanted
the previous decision to paint the cars to be acted on. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton
suggested that any motion for reconsideration would not be legal unless made by
a previous supporter. Mayor Caddell voiced his opinion that he did not agree
with the original decision to paint the cars and still does not agree. Mayor
Caddell stated “not one person has explained to me a reasonable rationale for
painting those cars.” Mayor Caddell added that “I don’t think the Chief did
this to spite anybody. Call every Police Chief in Moore County. Except for
smaller communities, every one has unmarked cars.” Commissioner Waschsen
remarked that the board deserved the blame for the mix up. Commissioner
Waschsen communicated that this is money we don’t need to spend. Commissioner
Lapping stated that he wants a highly visible police presence in Carthage, and
by painting the unmarked car this can be achieved. Mayor Caddell became visibly
upset, at what he remarked was a wasteful insistence on symbol rather than
substance. Mayor Caddell stated “explain to me what purpose painting that car
serves other than making it visible. It’s ridiculous. I just think it’s
ridiculous to paint a perfectly good car over the objection of people who use
it. I would love for somebody to tell me what this is going to prove. I just
want to go on record, so add my comment to the minutes. Add this comment or I
will not sign the minutes.” On the motion made by Commissioner Fields, there
were two ayes, three nays. Commissioners Riley, Lapping and Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton voted nay. Motion failed. Commissioner Fields asked if the painting
could be delayed until the end of the budget year. Commissioner Fields remarked
that the Police Department needs this car; lets keep it as it is until the end
of the budget year. Commissioner Walton opposed the idea of waiting, pointing
out that it could come up again before the end of the year. Furthermore, Mayor
Pro-tem Walton pointed out with the audit review the board just received,
$4000.00 is not that much money. With one vehicle already painted, the actual
cost is about $2,700, Mayor Caddell remarked.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board had previously adopted the Resolution to close a portion of
Cedar Drive.
   B.   The board approved the North Carolina League of Municipalities
membership agreements and Resolutions following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved the amendment to the personnel policy, copy
attached, which is and does become part of these minutes, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. Four ayes,
one nay. Motion carried. Commissioner Fields voted nay.
IX.   D.   The board voted to appoint Junior Vest to the Carthage Fire District
Board, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board approved the contract with Little River Farm Properties for
the matching money for the $400,000.00 Rural Center Grant, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None. 
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The minutes of the Planning Board meeting November 3, 2005 are attached, which
are and do become part of these minutes.     
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
There was discussion concerning the Carthage swimming pool. It was decided that
Commissioner Lapping, Commission Fields and Town Manager Carol Cleetwood would
set up a meeting with Lenora Maness concerning the Carthage swimming pool.  
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell remarked about the town of Robbins and how the town of Carthage
should get involved. Commissioner Lapping indicated that the Chamber is doing a
good job in assisting the town of Robbins.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 8:25 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields, and seconded by Commissioner Waschsen. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board went back into regular session at 9:14 p.m. Mayor Caddell
remarked there was no action taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:15 p.m. 
__________________________   ________________________
Larry R. Caddell, Mayor      Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk
DECEMBER 19, 2005
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 19, 2005
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday December 19, 2005 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor Caddell, Commissioners Mike Waschsen, Jean Riley, Ronnie
Fields, newly re-elected Commissioners W.C. Walton, Sherwood Lapping, and newly
elected Commissioner Robert Sullivan.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Captain Bart Davis, Former Fire Chief
Brian Tyner, Police Sgt. John Gibbons, Director of Public Works Junior Vest,
and Volunteer Fireman Chad Thomason.
   Also attending the meeting were Clerk of Court Catherine Graham, Dora Ann
Maness, Shanna Tolley, reporter for the Moore County Independent, and John
Chappell, reporter for the Pilot.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Caddell gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
Mayor Caddell presented Commissioner Mike Waschsen with a plaque for his
dedicated years and service to the Town of Carthage. Commissioner Waschsen
thanked everyone for all their support.
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   A.   Debbie Moon had asked to be placed on the agenda to discuss her water
bill. However, she was not present at the meeting.
   B.   Clerk of Court Catherine Graham swore in the newly elected
Commissioners Walton, Lapping and Sullivan.
A brief reception followed from 7:10 p.m. until 7:20 p.m.
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Special Meeting November 21, 2005
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting November 21, 2005
   C.   Budget Amendments #4, #5
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Fields asked about the IPC Corporation annexation. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
reported we had received the money. Carol reported that Bill Lester with Hobbs,
Upchurch & Associates is working on the plans for the terraced fish weir, as
well as the plans for enlarging the town reservoir and possible site for a new
water tank.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board voted to appoint Commissioner Walton as Mayor Pro-Tem,
following a motion made by Commissioner Riley, and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board appointed Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and Commissioner Lapping as
the authorized check signers, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields
and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   C.   Because of the Martin Luther King Holiday on Monday January 16, the
board decided to change the January Meeting date to Tuesday January 17, 2006 at
7:00 p.m.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
Commissioner Lapping commented on the DOT Carthage By-Pass, remarking that it
looks like we are back where we started.  
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
There were none.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping brought attention to the recent planning and zoning
problems that the Towns of Southern Pines and Aberdeen have been having.
Commissioner Lapping would like the Planning Board to review and study the
town’s zoning districts and ordinances, for possible potential problems or
weaknesses. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood will send a notice out to the Planning
Board in January that we will be reviewing these items in February and possibly
make recommendations back to the Board in March. It was decided that
Commissioner Lapping and Mayor Pro-Tem Walton would attend the Planning Board
meeting. Commissioner Riley commended Town Clerk Melissa Adams for the work on
the Christmas parade. Commissioner Fields and Commissioner Lapping wished all
the town employees a Merry Christmas, and reminded us to keep the sick on our
prayer list. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood commended the Police Department on
the work they have been doing recently combating drugs. Furthermore, Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood will write a letter to the new owners of the Kimberly
Park Shopping Center concerning the possibility of connecting a driveway
between Dollar General and the shopping center. Mayor Caddell remarked about
Chief Tyner’s resignation, and that Chad Thomason would be taking over in the
interim, until a new Fire Chief could be hired. Mayor Caddell wished Brian
Tyner well and thanked him for all his hard work as Fire Chief. Furthermore,
Mayor Caddell reminded everyone to “remember the reason for the season”. Mayor
Caddell asked Town Manager Carol Cleetwood if she could write a letter to the
Methodist Church as well as the Garden Club for their support with the
Christmas lights downtown. Lastly Commissioner Lapping asked Public Works
Director Junior Vest to check the illumination on the clock downtown.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None,
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m.  
_______________________         _______________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
2006 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 17, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 17, 2006
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Tuesday
January 17, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping and Robert Sullivan. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Patrol Officer Justin Garner,
Police Sgt. Brant Phillips, Police Detective Michael Hardin, Volunteer Fireman
Chad Thomason, Volunteer Fireman Chris Chisholm, Volunteer Fireman Brian Tyner,
and town employees Robbie Baker, Wayne Hubbard and Billy Rouse.
   Also in attendance were Brenda Rouse, Milton & Claudette Dowdy, Tom & Ann
Currie, Bingo & Elizabeth Barringer, Rolland Gilliam, Tommy Stewart, David
McKew from Hydro Management, John Chappell form the Pilot Newspaper, and Shanna
Tolley from the Moore County Independent Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Mayor Caddell presented Milton “T” Dowdy with a plaque for his
retirement from thirteen years of working for the town, remarking that he had
done an outstanding job for the town. Milton spoke briefly commenting that the
hardest part of leaving a job you enjoy is missing the people you worked with.
   B.   Chief McKenzie presented Patrol Officer Justin Garner with the “Officer
of the Year” award, commenting that Justin was trained by another recipient of
this award, Michael Hardin. Every one congratulated Officer Garner. Chief
McKenzie has promoted Sergeant Brant Phillips to Detective Sergeant. Chief
McKenzie presented Det. Sgt. Phillips with his pin, indicating his promotion.
Every one congratulated Det. Sgt. Phillips.
   C.   Acting Assistant Fire Chief Chad Thomason presented Volunteer Fireman
Chris Chisholm with the “Fireman of the Year” award, and the “Officer of the
Year” award to Brian Tyner. Every one congratulated both Chris Chisholm and
Brian Tyner.
   REFRESHMENTS were served from 7:20 p.m. – 7:35 p.m.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Regular Meeting December 19, 2005
   B.   Budget Amendment #6
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood reported that David McKew from Hydro Management was here to
present the monthly report for the water plant. Mr. McKew gave an update on the
water plant. Mr. McKew reported that the water samples for the fourth quarter
2005 for THM’s are compliant. The town will still have to mail public notices
because the state takes the average figures for four quarters. David McKew
presented the board with a permanent compliance plan, required by the state.
Town Manager referred to the dam project. The board authorized Bill Lester of
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates to move forward with obtaining the cost for
dredging the town pond, and completing the project as soon as possible,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning the Town of Robbins and their
application for a NC Rural Center grant. Mayor Caddell remarked that the town
should help them in trying to obtain the grant. The board adopted a Resolution
in Support of the Town of Robbins NC Rural Center Grant application, following
a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All
ayes. Motion carried. Town Manager will have Resolution ready for Mayor Caddell
to sign first thing in the morning, so that it can be delivered to the Robbins
Board of Commissioners.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Tom Currie was present to appeal the administrative decision of the
zoning staff to not allow livestock in a residential zoned area. Livestock are
neither a permitted use nor a conditional use in residential areas unless the
property is zoned RA-40. The property owned by Mr. Currie was rezoned in 1998
to R-20. Mr. Currie was asking that he be “grandfathered” because the property
in question had previously been used to raise livestock by his family..
However, no livestock have been on the property since the 1960’s. Mr. Currie
spoke with the board concerning his raising goats for the past seventeen years
for a hunger ministry called Heifer International. When he moved back to
Carthage, after retiring he had hoped he would be able to raise the goats on
his land. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood informed the board that in order to
allow Mr. Currie to have livestock on his property the property would have to
be re-zoned to RA-40. He could not be “grandfathered” in because there have not
been any animals on the property for years. Mr. Currie remarked that he did not
wish to rezone his property. Mayor Caddell asked Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
to obtain a written opinion from the School of Government, and it can be placed
back on the Agenda in February.
   B.   The board set a Budget Workshop/Retreat for Monday February 13, 2006 at
8:30 a.m. to be held in the Fire Department.  
   C.   The board appointed Billy Salmon to the Carthage Planning Board to
serve the unexpired term of Marvin Hamer, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
None.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None. Mayor Caddell remarked it was unusual that Commissioner Lapping had
nothing to comment on. 
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Bingo Barringer praised the town & town employees.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 8:45 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping. The board went back into regular session at 10:00 p.m.
Mayor Caddell remarked no action had been taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 10:00 p.m.  
_____________________________         _________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 13, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET RETREAT
FEBRUARY 13, 2006
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Retreat on
Wednesday February 13, 2006 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Fire Department
located within the Carthage Municipal Building.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a Budget Work/Shop – Retreat for the
fiscal year 2006 –2007.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Robert Sullivan, and Sherwood Lapping.
A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest,
Fire Chief Adam Coles, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis,
and from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates Bill Lester.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:45 a.m.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
   Discussion and work session began concerning the upcoming 2005 – 2006
Budget. The board reviewed the proposed fee schedule, which has no changes in
fees. Commissioner Lapping went on record stating that he felt that the
privilege license fees should be increased, they are regulated by state law and
he felt the legislature should study the issue of increasing them.
   Mayor Caddell brought attention to the water/sewer impact fees. Mayor
Caddell remarked that when the board voted last year to increase the impact
fees, that the policy of making a developer pay the impact fees upfront was not
discussed. Furthermore, Mayor Caddell let it be known that he felt the impact
fees were too high. Mayor Caddell further indicated that he felt that when the
board makes changes to fees that developers or persons that may be affected by
those fees, should receive written notification of the changes. Commissioner
Fields commented that he thought that the impact fees should be paid up front.
Town manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that the policy of making the impact fees
due upon final plat approval for new subdivisions was an administrative
decision. Furthermore, it is in writing in the 2005-2006 as well as, the 2006-
2007 fee schedule. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton remarked that it was Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood’s job to interpret the board’s decisions, and to make administrative
decisions concerning policies. Furthermore, Mayor ProTem Walton indicated that
the board should support those decisions. Commissioner Lapping indicated he
felt the impact fees should be due when the final plat for each phase is
approved.
   The board spent the day reviewing the proposed items to be considered for
the FY 2006 – 2007 budget, copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes.
   The board decided to leave the garbage fee at $8.00 per month for each
household. There was much discussion concerning the garbage company possibly
giving a reduced rate for a household wishing to have a second can. Presently,
the town is charged per can, so if a household wants an additional can, they
are charged an additional $8.00 per month. It was decided that Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood would investigate the possibility of obtaining a reduced rate
for additional cans.
   The board approved of Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, running a job
advertisement for additional help in the office. It was noted that
Administrative Support Assistant Susan Maness will be retiring soon. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood will fill one position now, and another right before
Susan retires. Finance Officer Linda Phillips reported that when Susan was
first hired the town paid retirement, but for some reason stopped for a period
of 6-7 months. Finance Officer Linda Phillips reported she thought the amount
needed to cover both the town’s portion and Susan’s portion would be around
$3000.00. The board decided to pay for the amount of time that was not paid on
Susan’s retirement, both the town’s part as well as the employee’s part,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   There was much discussion concerning hiring Adam Coles as part-time Fire
Chief, now and then after July 1, 2006, hiring an additional three more part-
time firefighters. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood indicated that due to his full-
time job with Pinehurst Adam did not want to work more than ten hours a week.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood indicated this would be for a probationary period
of six months, after which, it could be reviewed and changed if it was not
working out. Finance Officer Linda Phillips indicated the amount of money
needed for the part-time positions, including the Chief’s would be close to the
salary of what was budgeted for a full-time Fire Chief, and the present part-
time employees. The consensus of the board was that they were in favor of
hiring Adam Cole as a part-time Fire Chief.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood and Finance Officer Linda Phillips introduced a
proposal to upgrade salaries. There was some discussion concerning the
proposal. Finance Officer Linda Phillips will have a detailed report showing
the present salaries and the amount of increases for each employee for the
board at the Regular Meeting February 20, 2006 for Commissioners to review.
   The board went on to discuss code enforcement and beautification issues
within the town.
   Bill Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates gave presentations concerning
the 2000 Rural Center Drought Relief Grant, as well as the 2005 Rural Center
Economic Infrastructure Grant. It was decided the board will receive proposals
at the Regular Meeting concerning using the rest of the 2000 Rural Center Grant
money for improvements at Nick’s Creek, as well as excavation for a new pond,
that will feed into the town reservoir. There was discussion concerning Little
River and the 2005 Rural Center Economic Infrastructure Grant. Town Manger
Carol Cleetwood indicated the town was having difficulty in getting Little
River to pay the bills due to Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates for work completed
on the Grant project. The town has to pay Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates and then
collect the money from Little River. It was decided that Little River will have
to put the amount of the matching grant, which is $400,000.00 in an escrow
account, and that no more permits will be issued until the agreement with the
town is signed by Little River, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields
and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
instructed Bill Lester to move forward on the booster pump project for the two
proposed Union Church Subdivisions.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported the new Water/Sewer Policy will be
placed on the March 20, 2006 agenda, in order to give the board time to review
it.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Captain Bart Davis gave a power-point
presentation concerning retention of police officers, as well as adding a
position of Administrative Assistant. Chief McKenzie remarked that he is very
much in favor of the proposal to upgrade the salaries. Chief McKenzie discussed
narcotics investigation, and the possibility of purchasing a used car for
under-cover narcotics investigation work.
   Chief Adam Coles spoke concerning the purchase of equipment for the Fire
Department, as well as the possibility of purchasing a new Pumper. It was
decided that Town Manger Carol Cleetwood will check on financing and check on
the possibility of paying off the Fire Truck presently being financed, with the
possibility of obtaining some grant money to due so.
   The board reviewed Planning and Development, as well as Special Events, Town
Property and recreation.
   The board reviewed the survey for the proposed cemetery addition, adding
that they would like the surveyor to add walk-ways. The board also discussed
having flat markers only, in the new addition.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 4.00 p.m.
_____________________________         ____________________________
Melissa Page Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
FEBRUARY 20, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 20, 2006
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday February 20, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, and Planning Board Chairman Ron Mohr.
   Also in attendance were Pat Motz-Frazier, Rita Booth, Milton Dowdy, from the
Pilot Newspaper John Chappell, and from the Moore County Independent Shanna
Tolley.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell opened the meeting at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   A.   Pat Motz-Frazier addressed the board concerning the newly formed
downtown merchants association. The merchants plan to go in together on
advertising costs, much like a co-op. They plan to have monthly public relation
events, such as an open house at different locations. Other businesses will
have drawings for merchandise, and coupons for discounts. The “kick off” event
is scheduled for March 18, 2006. Pat Motz-Frazier will be hosting an open house
at her new business The Old Buggy Inn. Commissioner Lapping mentioned the now
defunct Carthage Chamber, recommending that the merchants association join
forces with the Chamber. Commissioner Lapping stated he feared that Carthage
would not get some of the things the Chamber has promised, if the two groups
are in competition with each other. Pat Motz-Frazier remarked that she and Rita
Booth both plan on joining the Chamber, however, a lot of the small businesses
downtown can not afford to join. She stated she felt that she and Rita could be
liaisons between the Chamber and the smaller businesses who could not join.
Mayor Caddell commended both Pat Motz-Frazier and Rita Booth for their effort
in this venture.    
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Regular Meeting January 17, 2006
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Retreat February 13, 2006
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood opened discussion concerning Glendale Subdivision. Some of the
residents are having trouble with their wells and they have asked for town
water. Because this would be a satellite annexation, 100% of the residents have
to agree to annexation, however not all of the residents wish to be annexed.
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood explained that she is working with some of the
homeowners, who want town water. If it can be worked out, they will have to pay
for the water lines to be run from our existing lines to theirs, they will be
required to pay tap fees and impact fees, as well as, out of town rates. The
board agreed to provide water to Glendale Subdivision, at the out of town rate;
they will be required to run the water lines from our existing lines to theirs,
and pay all tap fees and impact fees; followed by a motion made by Commissioner
Fields. There was discussion concerning the water line into the subdivision
being a dead end line. Commissioner Fields amended his original motion to
include Director of Public Works working with an engineer to try to loop the
water line, keeping it from being a dead end line, if possible. Motion seconded
by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Two proposals for 2000 Rural Center Drought Relief Grant – improvements
at Nick’s Creek Dam & excavation of new pond were received. One proposal for
$53,000.00, which was from Calvin Ross was incomplete. The board approved the
proposal from C&L Grading in the amount of $35,000.00 for the damn project and
$26,800.00 for excavation for a new pond, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   After discussion it was decided to change the March 20, 2006 Regular
Meeting to Monday March 27, 2006.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Chief McKenzie explained that due to miscommunication, the Governor’s
Safety Grant has had to be rewritten and submitted for one Police Officer and
one patrol car. The original grant was for two Police Officers and two patrol
cars. The board adopted the amended Resolution for the Governor’s Safety Grant,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copy attached of the Planning Board Meeting February 2, 2006 Minutes, which are
and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into closed session at 8:00 p.m. to discuss personnel and legal
matters, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
The board went back into regular session at 8:50 p.m. following a motion made
by Commissioner Fields. The board voted to adopt the proposed pay schedule with
changes, which will take effect the pay period beginning March 2006, following
a motion made by Commissioner Fields, and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Walton. All
ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:55 p.m.
__________________________      _________________________
Melissa P.   Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R.   Caddell, Mayor
MARCH 27, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 27, 2006
7:00 P.M.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday March 27, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Jean
Riley, Robert Sullivan, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Auxiliary Police Officer Steve
Malone, and town maintenance worker Jack Caddell.
Concerned citizens present were Robert Pearson, Frank McNeill, Randy & Tammy
Dunn, Darryl Kelly, Roland Gilliam, Mayor Pro-Tem of Whispering Pines Village
Council Frank Zamaroni, from the Moore County Independent Shanna Tolley, and
from the Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced the new Auxiliary Police
Officer Steve Malone to the town board, remarking he has many years of law
enforcement experience having worked for Pinehurst and Alcohol Beverage
Control. The board welcomed Officer Steve Malone.
Director of Public Works Junior Vest introduced Jack Caddell, the new Town
Maintenance employee to the board. Everyone welcomed Jack Caddell.  
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   The board heard a request from Darryl Kelly to change Canary Road to
Pete-Ida Kelly Road. Mr. Kelly spoke to the board concerning his request
remarking that his grandmother and grandfather were very well known and
respected members of the Carthage Community for many years. After some
discussion concerning the request of Moore County to only have single name
streets, the board voted to change Canary Road to Pete Kelly Road, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Town Clerk Melissa Adams swore in Randy and Tammy Dunn, who has
requested a Conditional Use Permit to place a single-wide mobile home on
property located off Stoney Creek Drive LRK # 10000988. The property is zoned
RA-40 and mobile homes are a Conditional Use. Town Clerk Melissa Adams informed
the board that no one had signed in to speak. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
remarked that no one has called concerning this matter. Furthermore, Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood informed the board that most of the surrounding
properties are mobile homes. Mr. and Mrs. Dunn presented pictures of the
surrounding property and the property in question, as evidence that there are
mobile homes located around their property. Mr. and Mrs. Dunn explained that
they own some of the adjoining property and they would not be land locked. Mr.
and Mrs. Dunn plan to install a 1987 single-wide mobile home on the property.
Commissioner Fields questioned whether the town has an ordinance with an age
limit on mobile homes. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood replied that the town does
not have an age limit; however Moore County has set an age limit of 1975.
Commissioner Fields stated that the town needs to look at the age limit more
closely. The board approved the request for a Conditional Use Permit from Randy
and Tammy Dunn to place a single-wide mobile home on the property located off
of Stoney Creek Drive LRK #10000988, following the determination of the
following facts;
   a.    the proposed use will not adversely affect the health and safety of
residents and workers of the town;
   b.    the proposed use will not be detrimental to the use of or development
of adjacent properties or other neighborhood uses;
   c.    the proposed use will not be affected adversely by existing uses;
         d.    the proposed use will be placed on a lot of sufficient size to
satisfy the space requirements of such use;
   e.    the proposed use will not constitute a nuisance or fire hazard because
of the number of persons who will attend or use such facility, of the vehicular
movement, of noise or fumes or of the type of physical activity;
   f.    the proposed use will comply with the off-street parking and loading
requirements of these regulations. All parking and driveways shall be located
in a safe and convenient manner;
   g.    the proposed use will not create or aggravate hazards to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic on the roads and sidewalks, both off-site and on-site,
serving the proposed use; following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Regular Meeting February 20, 2006
   B.   2005/2006 Budget Amendment – General Fund - #7
   C.   2005/2006 Budget Amendment – Water & Sewer Fund - #8
   D.   2005/2006 Transfer of Funds from the Water & Sewer Fund to the Rural
Center Fund for July 2005 -#A
   E.   2005/2006 Transfer of Funds from the Water & Sewer Fund to the Rural
Center Fund for October 2005 - #B
   F.   2005/2006 Transfer of Funds from the Water & Sewer Fund to the Rural
Center Fund for January 2006 - #C
   G.   2005/2006 Transfer of Funds from the Water & Sewer Fund to the General
Fund - #D
   H.   2005/2006 Transfer of Funds from the Powell Bill Fund to the General
Fund - #E
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood informed the board the RPZ will be installed at the Food Lion
Shopping Center tomorrow. Commissioner Lapping brought attention to the
proposed 24/27 By Pass, remarking that the State has ignored the study
previously done, and approved by the town, and now it appears we are back at
the drawing board.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The board voted to participate in the proposed FY 2006 Scattered Site
Housing Grant presented by Moore County following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Due to the Easter Holiday the board decided to change the date for the
April 17, 2006 Regular Meeting to Monday April 24, 2006, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes.
Motion Carried.
   C.   Mr. Robert Pearson spoke to the board concerning opening an automobile
repair shop at 104 Monroe Street. This location was previously occupied by
Johnny Taylor. Auto repair shops are not allowed in the Central Business
District, however they are grandfathered in at this location until June 1,
2006. Mr. Pearson remarked he would not be running a wrecker service or a used
car lot, strictly auto repair. He informed the board his son will be doing the
work and they will possibly only employ one or two more people at the most.
Furthermore, he will have cars being parked overnight. There was some concern
about kids hanging out at that location, and Mr. Pearson was asked if he would
cooperate with the Police Department in deterring that from happening. He
replied he would. The board approved allowing Mr. Pearson to open an auto
repair shop located at 104 Monroe Street, following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   D.   Roland Gilliam presented a request to amend lot sizes at Gilliam
McConnell Airport. Presently the Airport Zoning classification calls for
minimum lot sizes of 15,000 sq. ft. Mr. Gilliam informed the board e would like
to have the hanger lot size reduced to a minimum size of 10,000 sq. ft., and
the front width reduced from 100 sq. ft. to 90 sq. ft. The residential lot
sizes would not be changed. After some discussion, it was decided that Mr.
Gilliam should have a plat prepared showing what it is exactly he wished to do,
present it to the board, and a Public Hearing held to hear opinion concerning
reducing the hanger lot sizes, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields
and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
There were none.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton stated he wanted to publicly commend Carol Cleetwood for
taking care of the flag pole at the Post Office, when he was unable to get
anything accomplished. Commissioner Fields commended the Director of Public
Works Junior Vest and the Public Works Department for all there work on the
sidewalks and at the cemetery. Commissioner Fields inquired about Little River
and the agreement to upgrade the sewer system. Mayor Caddell informed
Commissioner Fields that Little River will attend a joint Planning Board and
Town Board meeting in May and all the issues will be taken care of.
Commissioner Lapping commended Town Manager Carol Cleetwood for her
representation of the town in various venues throughout the County.
Commissioner Sullivan commended Director of Public Works for the work done on
the sidewalks, and the Police Department for their hard work. Commissioner
Riley remarked about the landscaping at entrance to Carthage signs, informing
the board that the Garden Club was responsible for making them look so good.
Mayor Caddell asked Town Manager Carol Cleetwood to write a letter thanking the
Garden Club. Commissioner Lapping introduced Linda Koontz, recently hired by
the Chamber to assist the northern part of Moore County as the outreach
coordinator. Mayor Caddell remarked that the town should write the Town of
Robbins congratulating them on their recent grant approval. John Chappell gave
a brief update on the next steps for Robbins. He remarked that they are in the
process of designing a banner, which will show the direction in which Robbins
will move forward. Commissioner Lapping stated that at the upcoming “World
Famous Carthage July 4th Parade” three other Rotary Clubs will be
participating. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood spoke concerning the upcoming Buggy
Festival May 12 & 13, 2006.   
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Village of Whispering Pines Mayor Pro-Tem Frank Zamaroni thanked the board for
allowing him to attend the meeting tonight. Mayor Pro-Tem Zamaroni extended an
invitation to the board to attend any of the meetings in Whispering Pines, held
on the first and second Wednesdays of each month.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m.
__________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
APRIL 24, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 24, 2006
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday April 24, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Ronnie Fields, Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Junior Vest, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Police Officer Christina
Tarlton, Police Officer Dan Phillips, town employees Susan Maness, and Omega
Dowdy.
   Also present were Archie Maness, Tammy & Russell Welch, David McKew from
Hydro Management, Jim McCaskill from USDA, Ray Ogden from Partners in Progress,
Linda Koonce from the Chamber, Shanna Tolley from the Moore County Independent,
and John Chappell form the Pilot.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced two new Police Officers;
Christina Tarlton and Dan Phillips. The board welcomed both the Officers.
   B.   David McKew gave an update on the water plant remarking that the
routine operations were going well. He informed the board that the Carthage
Water Plant had recently won a safety award, for no accidents this past year.
Mr. McKew went over the monthly water report, which is and does become part of
these minutes. Commissioner Fields asked about the amount of backwash water.
Mr. McKew communicated that the water plant is within the normal percentages
for the amount of backwash water used, which is optimal below 10%. The water
plant presently is at 9.7%.
   C.   Mayor Caddell spoke concerning long time employee Omega Dowdy,
remarking that we had a hard time finding out actually how long she has worked
for the town. However, he remarked that he had the answer. When former Town
Clerk Waitsel Deese came to work for the town, Omega worked for her and she
came to work for the town with her. This was over twenty-six years ago. Omega
remarked that she couldn’t even remember how long she had worked for the town.
Mayor Caddell presented Omega with an engraved wooden jewelry box and a gift
certificate as a small token of the town’s appreciation for all her years of
dedicated service to the town. Omega spoke, remarking that she would miss
everyone very much, she had made some good friends, and that she had truly
enjoyed working for the town all these years. Mayor Caddell then spoke
concerning Susan Maness, retiring after working for the town for over ten
years. Mayor Caddell commended Susan for her hard work and dedication,
remarking that she will be missed. Mayor Caddell presented Susan with an
engraved wooded jewelry box, and a gift certificate as a small token of the
town’s appreciation for all she has done. Susan spoke, stating that she would
miss everyone, she had enjoyed her time working for the town, and that she
thanked the Lord for her time spent with the town.
The board recessed for refreshments at 7:25 p.m.
The board reconvened at 7:45 p.m.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
There was none.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Regular Meeting March 27, 2006
   B.   FY 2005/2006 Budget Amendment - #9, #10
   C.   FY 2005/2006 Budget Transfer - #F
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Fields asked if the town could investigate the possibility of building another
mausoleum at the Cemetery. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood will try to get
information concerning companies that build mausoleums.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.    Ray Ogden from Partners in Progress gave a report on the progress of
recruiting new businesses into the county this past year. Mr. Ogden informed
the board more success has come from recruitment of smaller businesses, and not
the large manufacturing kind. He reported that over the past two to two and a
half years approximately 700 jobs have been created in the county. Mr. Ogden
brought attention to several items which will be affecting the growth of the
county in the near future; the retirement of the “baby boomers”; accessibility
to the county by the improvement of US Highway #1, as well as a major air
service provider coming to the airport, and the Military phenomenon happening
at Fort Bragg. The board thanked Mr. Ogden for coming and giving his report.
   B.   The board approved the Proclamation of Municipal Clerk’s Week April 30
through May 6, 2006, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board adopted a  Resolution of Participation County-Wide Summit,
the one recommended by Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, with cost of participation
in line with the smaller town; Commissioner Lapping will serve on the alternate
revenue study committee, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, all ayes. Motion carried.
   D.    The board approved participation in the 2006 Community Wide Water
Study, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion Carried.  
   E.   Jim McCaskill from the USDA was present to go over the loan proposal
for the new fire truck. Mr. McCaskill emphasized that this was merely a
proposal and letter of conditions, and does not obligate the town in any way,
if they decide not to purchase a new fire truck. A copy of the loan proposal
and letter of conditions is attached, and does become part of these minutes.
The board adopted the Loan Resolution from the USDA, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board voted to pay off the existing fire truck loan using Fire
District Reserve Funds, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The board adopted a  Resolution Declaring Surplus Property – 1969 Ford
Pumper, to be sold by private negotiation, on the condition that the town
decals and the lights be removed, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning board and the Historical Committee did not meet.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Riley commended Director of Public Works Junior Vest and the
Public Works Department on the excellent appearance of the town. Commissioner
Fields wished Mayor Caddell good luck in the upcoming primary May 2, 2006.
Mayor Caddell thanked everyone for all their support. Furthermore, he
reiterated what Commissioner Riley had said about Public Works. Commissioner
Lapping commented on the draught three years ago, and how it has taken over 15
years to get a permanent dam permit, because of the hard work of the Mayor and
the board, it is now a reality. Commissioner Lapping also stated that Public
Works should be proud of the job they are doing. Mayor Caddell informed the
board that the Town of Southern Pines would like to study the Hwy 22 corridor,
and would like the town to be involved. It was decided Mayor Caddell,
Commissioner Lapping and Town Manager will participate in the study. Mayor
Caddell informed the public there will be a Special Meeting with the Board of
Commissioners and the Planning Board, also representatives form the Town of
Southern Pines, Hobbs, Upchurch & Assoc. and Little River on Monday May 15,
2006 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Linda Koonce from the Moore County Chamber of Commerce spoke briefly, informing
the board her office would be moving to another location in Carthage. She
reported she was working on a brochure on Carthage which she will be handing
out as soon as they are finished. John Chappell introduced his step-son Steven
Cain.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G. S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6): 
The board went into closed session at 8:34 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. The board reconvened the
regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. Mayor Caddell remarked that there had been no
action taken in closed session. Disciplinary action of an employee and economic
development had been discussed.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:01 p.m.
__________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MAY 8, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 8, 2006
8:00 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Workshop
on Monday May 8, 2006 at 8:00 a.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building located
at 4396 Hwy 15-501 in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, and Town Clerk Melissa Adams.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 8:03 a.m.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
   The board began discussion concerning the proposed FY 2006-2007 budget. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that the proposed tax evaluation has increased
approximately 9 million, due to Little River as well as, the annexations out on
Union Church Road.
   The Fire Department is asking for an increase in the Fire Service District
tax rate from $0.55 to $0.65. The approximate revenue that would be generated
from the proposed increase would be $166,140.00.
   There was discussion concerning The Glendale Subdivision requesting help
with paying for a water line, in order to have town water. They had received an
estimate from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates for over $60,000.00. All but three
property owners wish to be annexed into town. However, if it is not unanimous,
the town can not legally annex them into the town limits. They are having
trouble with their wells and they need town water. Since annexation is not
possible, they are willing to pay out of town rates. They are asking that the
town help with some of the cost of running the lines. There was discussion
concerning this issue, the town could possibly provide the labor cost of some
of the work involved in digging the holes for the water lines. The property
owners would still have to pay for all other costs, including the engineer
costs. Commissioner Fields asked that we do a study to see how long it would
take to recoup the town’s money, if the town helped them pay for installing the
lines. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton questioned if money could be spent for out of town
water lines. It was decided to have Town Manager Carol Cleetwood approach the
property owners again, concerning annexation.
   The board discussed the increase in the salaries, an overall adjustment of
approximately 12.60%, as well as the increase in insurance. Finance Officer
Linda Phillips informed the board that the health insurance increase is
approximately 22.72% and the property/liability and workers comp is increasing
by approximately $5032.00.
   Commissioner Lapping asked about the possibility of the Cover Moore
Insurance program, Finance Officer Linda Phillips remarked that she and Town
Manger Carol Cleetwood have met with First Health concerning the insurance
program. It was not a comparable plan to what we have presently, and it would
not include life insurance or dental coverage.
   The board discussed the proposed fund balance appropriation of $193,265.00,
this includes $116,896 from the fire district reserve for the new truck and
$76,369.00 for the salary increases, and insurance increases. There was
discussion concerning not taking the money from fund balance to pay off the
current balance on the last fire truck purchased and to pay for the new truck.
Finance Officer Linda Phillips informed the board she was against taking that
much from the fund balance. She would rather see them make yearly payments and
as the tax base grows, then the board could revisit the issue. Discussion
followed. It was decided that the board would not pay off the balance on the
current fire truck loan amount, continue to make payments and leave that money
in the reserve fund, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. Commissioner Lapping amended his motion by
adding that the payments be made out of the Fire District Reserve. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   There was discussion concerning the possibility of going to a full-time Fire
Chief. There was general discussion concerning the chain of command within the
Fire Department.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood presented the board with proposals for tax
increases and what the proposed revenue would be. The board emphatically agreed
there would be no increase in taxes or water/sewer rates.
   There was some discussion concerning the possible growth at Little River, as
well as the proposed water tank.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 10:05 a.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
________________________      _______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
MAY 15, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
JOINT MEETING
MAY 15, 2006
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Carthage Planning Board held a
joint meeting at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W. C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Sherwood Lapping, and Robert Sullivan. A full board.
   Planning Board members present were Chris Lassiter, Connie Burns, Percy
DeGraffenreid, Max Muse, and Vernon Kelly. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, and Director of Public
Works Junior Vest.
   Present from Little River Capital Partners, LLC were Fran Mullan, Bob
Gallow, Blaine East, Ben Minton, and John Mullan. Also in attendance was Rich
Smith. There were also several adjoining property owners present.
   Those present for the Conditional Use Hearing were Elizabeth Giri, Ronnie
Gray, Jim Presley, Judith Phillips, Louise Seawell, Jean Janouskovec, Linda
Presley, and Bob Phillips.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:04 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 6:07 p.m. Fran Mullan, PE
began the presentation of the new master plan for Little River. The new master
plan will reduce the density, has more open spaces and fewer homes. The
proposed plan is a variety of townhomes, carriage homes, condominiums, single
family homes, retail shops, and a five story hotel. The proposed plan will
allow for the mixed uses to blend with the existing structures and the golf
course, as well as the topography and vegetation. There was a presentation of
drawings, for each of the planned buildings. Across Highway 22 and on the
corner of McCaskill Road, a retail shopping center is proposed. This would
encompass a variety of retail, theater, and arts, with a proposed amphitheater.
Commissioner Lapping asked how prominent would a five-story hotel be for people
on the adjacent land and roads. Fred Hobbs remarked that he thinks most of the
hotel will be blocked by trees, however, they plan to study this issue
carefully. The Carthage Planning Board retired to the next room, to review the
plans, in order to make a recommendation to the board. Public Hearing was
adjourned at 7:33 p.m.
   B.   Mayor Caddell called the Public Hearing for the request from Elizabeth
Giri for a Conditional Use Permit to construct a town house on property located
on McNeill Street LRK # 5946 to order at 7:37 p.m. Town Clerk Melissa Adams
swore in the following individuals, Elizabeth Giri, Jim Presley and Ronnie
Gray. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood went over the procedures for a quasi-
judicial hearing, informing the board of the following; public notice must be
advertised in a newspaper, once a week for two weeks, in accordance with the
public hearing notice law; public notice must be mailed to the adjoining
property owners, this was done, certification attached which is and does become
part of these minutes; the person requesting the conditional use permit has the
burden of proof of providing sufficient evidence for the board to conclude that
the standards for issuing a conditional use permit have been met; those
offering testimony must be placed under oath; hearsay evidence and opinion are
not allowed; the board must specify what it determines the facts to be and must
document the basis for the decision; the decision requires a four-fifths
majority of the board. Elizabeth Giri then began to make a presentation,
showing a copy of proposed plans for what the townhouse will look like on the
outside. Ms. Giri informed the board the townhouse will sit 85’ off of the
street, well within the required set back, furthermore she stated that she will
try to leave most of the natural vegetation undisturbed. Ms. Giri remarked she
had a tax listing from the Moore County Tax Department web site, containing tax
values for homes on McNeill Street, and a listing of similar townhomes she has
constructed and their tax value. She noted that the tax value was higher for
similar townhouses, than some of the homes on McNeill Street. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood asked where the parking would be. Ms. Giri reported that the
parking will be in the front; however Ms. Giri remarked that is was possible
that she may build the townhouse with garages in the rear. Ms. Giri stated that
townhouse will be constructed of brick and vinyl. Ms. Giri explained that the
townhouse will consist of one building with two units. Commissioner Fields
asked about the square footage of each unit. Ms. Giri explained each unit
consists of 1260’sq. ft. of heated living space; not including the porch on
front. Commissioner Fields asked if the porch size was 60 feet on each side?
Ms. Giri replied yes. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton asked if each unit had a ground
floor. Ms. Giri replied yes; kitchen and half bath, with living room on the
ground floor, with the bedrooms and a full bath upstairs. Commissioner Fields
remarked that Ms. Giri had spoke concerning the tax values, did she wish to
present that to the board? Ms. Giri presented a tax listing from the Moore
County Tax Department web site, containing tax values for homes on McNeill
Street, and a listing of similar town homes she has constructed and their tax
value. Ms. Giri remarked that the minimum requirement for the lot size was
25,000 sq. ft. and this lot was 27,000 sq. ft. Commissioner Fields asked how
many driveways will the property have. Ms. Giri replied that the townhouse will
have one driveway. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood asked if these units would be
sold or rented. She informed the board she will not sell them and will rent
each unit for over $700.00 a month. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood asked if they
screen the renters. Ms. Giri replied that she screens her renters very
carefully, she owns several similar rental properties, and has never had a
problem from tenants. The board then reviewed the drawing Ms. Giri had
presented and asked if any one in the audience would like to look at them. They
declined. Commissioner Fields asked Ms. Giri if she had a license to build. Ms.
Giri remarked that she was a licensed real estate broker, as well as, a
licensed contractor. Commissioner Fields asked if she had her license with her.
Ms. Giri replied she had her license in the car. Mayor Caddell asked if there
were any questions from any one. Ronnie Gray addressed the board, remarking
that he had a petition against the conditional use permit with 28 names from
neighboring property owners. He then submitted the petition to the board. Mr.
Gray stated that he had owned and lived on his property at 302 Holly Street for
many years. Mr. Gray submitted pictures, which become part of this record, of a
duplex located on Holly Street, remarking that the neighborhood has not had a
good situation with the duplex. Mr. Gray remarked that the Police Department
has been called several times in the past two years to that duplex. Mr. Gray
informed the board that the petition that he was submitting was signed by
everybody that he stopped and spoke to. The only signatures he was unable to
obtain were for from people that were not home. Mr. Gray stated that everyone
that adjoins the property in question has signed the petition. Mr. Gray
remarked that no one in the neighborhood wanted a duplex, or town house in the
neighborhood. Mr. Gray informed the board he felt like renters do not take care
of the property, like he does. He stated that because he owns his property, he
cares more about the appearance and upkeep. Mr. Gray went on to say that this
was the third time that the neighborhood had to fight to keep out a duplex, and
on one of the lots, a single family home was built. Mr. Jim Presley spoke to
the board, stating that he owns property next to the existing duplex. Mr.
Presley also owns property on Walnut Street. Mr. Presley stated that he grew up
in this neighborhood, and moved home permanently four years ago. Mr. Presley
remarked that he is passionate about his neighborhood, and wants to protect it.
Mr. Presley stated he did not want to see the neighborhood deteriorate from
single family homes to multi-family dwellings. He is concerned about the
overall compatibility of a duplex in the neighborhood and the impact it would
have on the neighborhood. Mr. Presley spoke concerning the duplex on Holly
Street, reporting that over the past couple of years, there have been a number
of problems, with the Police Department being called numerous times. Mr.
Presley stated the owner of the duplex had lived there for a short period of
time, but now he has moved away, creating an absentee landlord problem. Mr.
Presley remarked the problem is evident by the lack of care given to the
duplex. Mr. Presley remarked he had a few concerns; that he felt the proposed
town house had the potential to have the same problems because of the absentee
owner; the owner will not be living there. Another concern Mr. Presley had was
the impact a town house would have on the current neighborhood character.
Additionally, he felt that if the town allowed the property to be rezoned, it
would open the door, for future requests for multi-family dwellings. Mr.
Presley remarked that this would also impact property values, because the
character of the single family neighborhood would be compromised. Mr. Presley
asked that each Council member approach this issue, as if this proposed town
house were going to be right next to each of them. Town Manager stated she
would like to clarify something stated by Mr. Presley; this was not a request
for rezoning but a request for a conditional use permit. Mr. Presley asked what
the difference in the two was. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood explained that if
the property were rezoned to allow multi-family units, then any one could build
them any where they wanted to. With a conditional use, it is for that one piece
of property only, and it is determined by each individual case. Mr. Presley
indicated that they still felt that if a town house were allowed in the
neighborhood, whether by conditional use or rezoning, all of their comments
would still hold true. Mr. Presley remarked that by allowing the town house, it
makes it easier for the next group of people to come in. Mr. Presley remarked
that if multi-family homes are allowed, it will get to the point that he will
not want to live in the neighborhood; he too, may one day be requesting a
conditional use permit. Mr. Presley stated he felt it would increase the
likelihood that more homeowners would sell out to build multi-family homes. Ms.
Giri asked if he would like a response to the comments. Mayor Caddell informed
her she could respond. Ms. Giri stated that her company has several units
located in residential neighborhoods and that they maintain their own
properties. Ms. Giri disputed that she would be an absentee landlord because
she would not be living at the property, however, the company owns units in
Aberdeen Southern Pines and Pinehurst, and she believes they are all maintained
quite well. Ms. Giri emphasized that they carefully screen all their clients,
and that they do not abandon their properties, they are properly maintained.
Ms. Giri stated they are buildings that have her name attached to them, and
therefore she takes pride in how they look. Ms. Giri communicated that because
of the amount of rent that they get, they do not have trouble with their
clients; they have not had any police called to any of their rental units. Mr.
Presley asked her if she intended to live on the premises. Ms. Giri replied no,
she would not be living on the premises. Mr. Presley asked if he could explain
his concern about an absentee landlord; remarking that if she is not living
there how would they be able to respond to loud radios and disturbances in the
middle of the night. If she were living there the neighbors could come knock on
her door, and the issue could be handled. Mr. Presley asked Ms. Giri where she
lived presently. Ms. Giri stated she lived in Pinehurst, and that she
understood she would not be living at the townhouse, but she would be readily
available, should there be any problems. Ms. Giri stated she has not had any
problems with any of the rental units. Mr. Presley remarked he felt that was
irrelevant, because she would not be on the premises, she would not know what
was going on, and would qualify as an absentee landlord. Ms. Giri remarked that
she felt this issue had already been covered; as did Mayor Caddell. Mr. Ronnie
Gray interjected that Ms. Giri may own the property for several years, but then
she may sell it, to someone who does not take care of it. Ms. Giri explained
that as long as she owned the property this would not be a problem. Ms. Linda
Presley asked if she could ask a question. Mayor Caddell informed her she would
have to be sworn in, as well as any one else wishing to speak. Town Clerk
Melissa Adams swore in Ms. Linda Presley, Ms. Jean Janouskovec, and Bob
Phillips. Ms. Presley spoke concerning her property where she lives and grew up
on there is a pond, in close proximity to the proposed town house. Ms. Presley
asked if she could have a Police car at her disposal in order to keep kids from
drowning in the pond. Ms. Presley remarked that she was too old to be getting
kids out of the pond, and that she knows they will be jumping in and drowning.
Furthermore, she felt like if that happens, the town would come after her.
Mayor Caddell remarked no, she could not have a Police car at her disposal. Mr.
Presley remarked that possibly they will have no choice but to fence that area
in. Ms. Janouskovec spoke remarking that Carthage is a very pretty town and
this proposed town house would be located on one of the main streets coming
into Carthage. Jean went on to say that the street is full of beautiful well
kept older homes, and the town house would not fit in the neighborhood, amongst
all those beautiful homes. Mayor Caddell asked Ms. Janouskovec if she owned
property in the area. Ms. Janouskovec replied that she owns the property right
next to the property in question. Ms. Janouskovec emphasized that the area is
beautiful, the homes are beautiful and a town house would not fit in. Ms.
Janouskovec stated that the town wants to keep the continuity of the area with
the Little River project, and this would be spoiling that concept. Mr. Bob
Phillips spoke stating that he moved back home after his mother got sick, and
she would be turning over if she were hearing this conversation. Mr. Phillips
stated that he lived in Wrightsville Beach in a town house, and within six
months, the property went down hill. Mr. Phillips remarked that he did not move
home to be three houses away from the same situation. Mr. Phillips stated that
Carthage is single family homes, with very close-knit neighbors who would do
anything for you. Mr. Phillips remarked that this was what they were trying to
say, that maybe there was a place for the proposed town house, outside of town.
Mr. Phillips stated that he wasn’t going to speak, but changed his mind. Mr.
Phillips remarked that Carthage is Carthage and let’s not change it, that there
is nothing wrong with good old values, and good old houses and families.
Town Clerk Melissa Adams swore in Judy Phillips. Ms. Phillips introduced
herself and stated that she lived on the other side of the duplex on Holly
Street. Ms. Phillips stated that when they first bought the property that it
was an ideal situation, until the duplex was built. Ms. Phillips informed the
board that her family lived in fear of trees located at the duplex that were
dead following down on them. Ms. Phillips remarked that the town finally
assisted in getting the trees removed after two years. Ms. Phillips stated that
this is where they have chosen to retire, and that she hopes they can hang on,
in light of the current rental situation. Ms. Phillips stated that experience
has taught us that things start out one way and end up another. Mayor Caddell
reported that the board always tries to do what is right. Mayor Caddell stated
that he wanted to make sure every one is heard, every one has an opinion. Mayor
Caddell asked if any one had any comments; from either side. Ms. Giri stated
she wanted to make a brief comment concerning the size of the lots; she tried
to put the town house in the middle of the property, leaving as much natural
vegetation and trees as possible. Ms Giri went on to say that the duplex that
was being compared to her proposed town house was like comparing apples and
oranges, there are structural differences, the town house was not like the
duplex. Mayor Caddell stated that he thought the issue was not the structure
itself, but the rental situation. Mayor Caddell stated that the board might
want to deal with this issue before they handle the Little River situation.
Commissioner Lapping remarked that the board could not take into consideration
that this would be rental property, that any one can rent their property.
Commissioner Lapping stated that no governmental entity can tell a property
owner that they can not rent. Commissioner Lapping stated that the only issue
at hand was whether a town house was appropriate use of the property.
Commissioner Lapping remarked that any one could turn around and rent their
property and no one has any control over that. Commissioner Lapping was asked
by Mr. Presley wouldn’t any one wanting to rent their house have to come get a
conditional use permit. Mayor Caddell answered no, not a single family
dwelling, only if you were turning it into a multi-family unit. Mr. Presley
went on to state that his main concern was a density issue, that this would be
increasing the density. The neighborhood is mostly comprised of single family
homes and that this would deteriorate the neighborhood. Mr. Presley stressed
that his concern was an increase in rental properties, with a higher density in
the neighborhood. Mayor Caddell was asked about town ordinances for high grass,
loud noises and such and how does the town enforce the ordinances. Mayor
Caddell and Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked that the town has ordinances
for such things and if a homeowner does not cut their grass, the town will cut
the grass and send them a bill. Mayor Caddell adjourned the Public Hearing at
8:35 p.m.
Mayor Caddell reconvened the Regular Meeting at 8:35 p.m. Commissioner Lapping
asked who were the immediate neighbors. A few held up their hands. Mayor Pro-
Tem Walton stated that what jumped out at him were the neighbors stating that
this would be detrimental to the neighborhood. Commissioner Fields remarked
that his concern was that the tax values submitted by Ms. Giri were not
certified, and that the property values of the homes in the neighborhood would
be affected adversely by the proposed town house, based on that and the
testimony heard by the neighbors, the board found the following fact; that the
proposed use would be detrimental to the use of and development of adjacent
properties or other neighborhood uses; Commissioner Fields made a motion that
the board deny the request for a Conditional Use Permit to Ms. Giri. Mayor Pro-
Tem Walton seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Caddell thanked everyone
for coming. Max Muse of the Carthage Planning Board remarked that the Planning
Board had some questions concerning some safety issues out at Little River and
that they had come to an understanding on those issues. The question was
concerning the emergency entrance/exit on Hwy 22. The Planning Board was
satisfied that there would be access to the property in the event of an
emergency. Max Muse made a motion to recommend approval of the Master Plan for
Little River, the preliminary plat for the hotel, and the six town houses,
seconded by Vernon Kelly. All ayes. Motion carried. There was discussion
concerning some items on the proposed suggested conditions of approval
submitted by Little River Resort Properties, LLC, copy attached, which is and
does become part of these minutes. There was discussion concerning the wording
on item #24 item #25, and item #32, the board felt these needed to be
clarified. Item #28 there was questions concerning the revenue from the rental
of the co-location of the new water tank. The board felt that they should not
give up control of the co-location of communications on the water tank.
Commissioner Lapping recommended that the use of the word “shall” be changed.
The board approved the Master Plan, excluding the proposals, those to be worked
on; language clarified and changed on the items listed above, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields, and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. The
board approved the preliminary plans for the hotel and the town homes,
following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.              
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Regular Meeting April 24, 2006
   B.   Minutes Budget Workshop May 8, 2006
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS: 
None.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
None.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Caddell gave an update on the new reservoir project. Commissioner Fields
commented on the Buggy Festival, held this past Saturday, remarking that
everyone involved did a super job, and how much he enjoyed the festival with
his grandson. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood informed the board she will invite
the committee members to the June meeting.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Former Governor James Holshouser addressed the board concerning Little River,
remarking that he will assist in any way he can, to assure that the project
goes smoothly. Ms. Giri spoke to the board concerning their decision to deny
the Conditional Use Permit, remarking that the tax information she had
submitted, could be certified. Furthermore, she wanted to know about the appeal
process. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood told her to call the office tomorrow and
we will explain the appeal process.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G. S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:50 p.m.
_____________________________         ______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
JULY 17, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
JOINT MEETING
JULY 17, 2006
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Town Board of Commissioners and the Carthage Planning Board
held a joint meeting on Monday July 17, 2006 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald
Building located in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Ronnie Fields. A quorum. Commissioner Sullivan
was absent.
Planning Board Members present were Max Muse, Chris Lassiter, Connie Burns, and
Percy Degraffenreid. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Fire Chief Joe Rorie, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Assistant Director of Public Works Robbie Baker, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, and Police Captain Bart Davis.
   Also present from Little River Golf Resort. LLC were Fran Mullen, Blaine
East, Rich Smith and Ben Minton.
   Concerned citizens present were Tommy Stewart, Beth McNeely, Mr. & Mrs.
Ricky Yow, Libby and Steve Moodie, Ross Botson, Shelby Diver, Gail Oldham-
Allmon, Stacey Overton, and a number of residents from the Stonegate
Subdivision.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Fran Mullen from Little River Golf Resort, LLC presented seven pods for
approval from the Carthage Planning Board and Board of Commissioners. The seven
pods were; Fair Meadows, which consists of 26 single family homes; Fairway
Downs, which have 54 Carriage Homes; Oaklawn, which consists of 17 Carriage
Homes; River Downs, which consists of 58 Townhomes; Remington Park which have
109 single family homes; Suffolk Downs which consists of 46 Carriage Homes; and
Blue Ribbon Downs which have 28 Carriage Homes. Fran Mullen reported that they
have no intention on encroaching on any of the wetlands located in some of the
area, they would possibly be building a few small bridges to cross over any of
the wetlands. Planning Board member Max Muse inquired about an alternative way
in or out of the Oaklawn section. Fran Mullen replied that they have an
emergency entrance/exit. Commissioner Fields asked about the time frame listed
in the Master Plan Conditions of Approval, remarking that he feels the town
should not be held to that time schedule. Fran remarked that the time schedule
was merely a loose outline for completion of projects and could be adjusted as
needed. Mayor Caddell asked the Planning Board and members of Little River Golf
Resort, LLC. to move into the next room to review the pods presented. The
Planning Board returned with a recommendation that the town board approve the
seven pods as presented by Little River. The board approved the seven pods as
presented and the Master Plan Conditions of Approval, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board approved the Letter of Intent for the Sewer Agreement with
the Town of Southern Pines following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie remarked that Police Captain Bart Davis had
recently completed the NC Justice Academy Criminal Investigation Certification
Program. Chief McKenzie informed the board it took Captain Davis three years to
achieve this goal. Chief McKenzie presented Captain Davis with his certificate
of completion. The board congratulated Captain Davis.   
   C.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood introduced the New Fire Chief Joe Rorie.
The board welcomed Joe. 
   D.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood introduced the New Public Works Director
A. H. (Rocky) Davis. The board welcomed Rocky.
   E.   Public Works Director Rocky Davis introduced the new Assistant Public
Works Director Robbie Baker. The board congratulated Robbie. 
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m. for the request by Jean
Paul McNeely to re-zone property located at 610 Parks Street LRK #2956 from R-
10 “Residential 10,000 sq.ft. Lots” to B-2 “Business”, in order to have an
antique shop located at the property. Ms. Beth McNeely spoke to the board
concerning her request, remarking that her intention was to have only an
antique business located at the property. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported
that if the property is re-zoned to B-2 any business permitted within the B-
2 District could be allowed to be located on the property. After much
discussion, Town Manager Cleetwood informed the board they could re-zone the
property to a Special Use District within the B-2 District to include an
antique business only. There was no opposition to the request for re-zoning by
any of the surrounding property owners. There was discussion concerning her
placing a sign on the property. Town Manager Cleetwood stated she could not
have an off premise sign, and recommended that approval to place a sign on the
property be made only after reviewing a proposal of the size and type sign she
would like to place on the property. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at
7:20 p.m. The board approved changing the zoning to a Special Use District
within the B-2 Zoning District, with special conditions of approval concerning
the sign, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:20 p.m. concerning the
request by Ricky Yow to re-zone property located at 201 E. Barrett Street LRK
#00000868 from R-10 “Residential 10,000 sq. ft. Lots” to a Special Use District
for the purpose of allowing Professional Offices. Ricky Yow explained his wife
is a new attorney and he would like to convert the house into a law office for
her to relocate her business. Furthermore, the lot is very large, and he has
separated it into two lots. He would like to build another office building on
the vacant lot some time in the future. There were several residents who had
asked to speak in opposition to the request for the re-zoning. Libby Moodie
remarked that she and her husband were against the rezoning. Ms. Moodie went on
to say that she and her husband have done a lot of work to restore their home.
She stated that because of the Marion Building, she has lost a lot of parking
in front of her house, and there is an increase in the noise and traffic. Ms.
Moodie communicated she was totally against the re-zoning. Shelby Diver spoke
next, commenting that she resides at 301 Barrett Street. She purchased the home
in 2003. Ms. Diver stated she would like the neighborhood to remain
residential, due to the number of families, with young children within the
neighborhood. Ms. Diver stated she was against the re-zoning. Ross Botson spoke
next, informing the board he has two young children with one on the way. He and
his family moved here from Fayetteville, to get away from the traffic, etc. Mr.
Botson remarked when he purchased his home from Ron Mohr, the neighborhood was
residential and he would like to see it remain as such. Mr. Botson was
concerned about the parking and the traffic such a change would create.
Mr. Yow spoke to clarify the issue of the parking, remarking that he had ample
room for parking on the Summitt Street side of the property. Mr. Botson replied
that the main issue would be the added traffic. Ms. Moodie spoke concerning the
time that Mr. Yow purchased the property, remarking that the town had to send
him letters to clean up the property. Mr. Yow answered back that he never
received any letters from the town, as soon as he purchased the property he
began to clean it up and made improvements. Ms. Moodie asked about restrictions
on the number of people allowed if it was to become an office. Commissioner
Fields replied that the number of people allowed would be determined by the
size of the building. Mayor Caddell asked that the Planning Board and the
neighborhood residents, as well as Mr. Yow, review this issue and try to come
to an amicable agreement. The Planning Board reconvened into the next room to
consider this issue alone, and then with the property owners. Mayor Caddell
adjourned the Public Hearing at 7:48 p.m. After much discussion, the Planning
Board came back and made the following recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners; that the board rezone the property to a Special Use District to
include professional offices only, with the following conditions: any new
construction would be fashioned to look like a home, with offices for no more
than three attorneys to be located in the new building, and only one office
located in the present house, parking and the entrance to be located on the
Summitt Street portion of the property. The board approved the rezoning to a
Special Use District to allow for professional offices only, with the above
referenced conditions to apply to the re-zoning, following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: The board approved the following items following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Workshop June 19, 2006
   B.   Minutes Joint Planning Board/Board of Commissioners Meeting June 19,
2006
   C.   Budget Amendment #15 & #16
   D.   Budget Transfer #H
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: 
No report was given.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   The decision concerning the request from Jean Paul McNeely for Re-
zoning from R-10 to B-2 was previously decided.
   B.   The decision concerning the request from Ricky Yow for re-zoning from
R-10 to a Special Use District was previously decided.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
Town Manager Cleetwood reported that the Carthage Swimming Pool has been
purchased by Lee McGraw. Mr. McGraw has indicated he would do what the town
asks in order to improve the property.  
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None. 
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Mayor Caddell moved this portion of the agenda so as to accommodate the many
people present to speak concerning the proposed 24/27 bypass. This issue was
discussed right after the presentation of Little River. There were many
residents from Stonegate Subdivision present who were asking to speak to the
board concerning the proposed 24/27 bypass. Much discussion followed. Mayor
Caddell spoke concerning the proposed bypass and how the town had approved a
plan ten years ago and then the project was dropped. This has happened numerous
times. Mayor Caddell stated he felt no one in the room would live to see the
bypass built. The property owners of Stonegate asked that their signed
statement be entered into the minutes of this meeting. Their statement states
that they oppose the two northern routes of the proposed bypass of 24/27. Both
the northern routes go through Stonegate Subdivision. They believe that the DOT
could choose a less inhabited area. Furthermore, they stated they felt the
proposed bypass would hurt the growth of the town. The board approved making
their statements part of the official minutes of this meeting, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried. Copy of their statements are filed with, and do become
part of these minutes. Mayor Caddell remarked that the town would send a letter
in opposition to the proposed bypass to the NC DOT along with a copy of the
statements from the residents of Stonegate Subdivision. Beth McNeely addressed
the board concerning speeding through town. Ms. McNeely remarked that she likes
to walk through town to run her errands, and it is almost impossible to get
across the streets. Ms. McNeely asked if there was anything the town could do,
possibly put up signs to reduce the speeding. Mayor Caddell remarked that
making three lanes all the way to Hardees might help. Chief McKenzie spoke
concerning this issue, stating they have seen a reduction in the speed
throughout town. Chief McKenzie remarked that the Police Department would be
more visible in order to address this issue. Ricky Yow spoke concerning the
excellent job the Police Department does for the town.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G. S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into a closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping. The board went into closed session at 8:30 p.m. The board reconvened
the regular session at 9:15 p.m. The following action was taken; the board
decided to deed property given to the town by Sam Riddle for the purpose of
building a new Fire Station, back to Sam Riddle, and Mr. Riddle is to pay for
the deed preparation, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Fields.
All ayes. Motion carried. The board voted to increase the minimum heated living
space in any residential district to 1200 sq. ft., following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked she thought that because they
were changing requirements within the Zoning Ordinance, the board would have to
have a Public Hearing before such a change could be made.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9: 15 p.m.
__________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
AUGUST 7, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
PUBLIC HEARING/SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 7, 2006
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Public Hearing and a Special
Meeting on Monday August 7, 2006 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Robert
Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping and Jean Riley. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and
Police Sergeant Michael Hardin.
   Concerned citizens present were Milton Dowdy, Lloyd McGraw. Present form the
Moore County Planning Department was Kathy Liles, and from the Pilot Newspaper
reporter John Chappell.
   The purpose of the Public Hearing and the Special Meeting was to consider
adoption of the new Floodplain Maps, approval of the Interlocal Agreement with
Moore County, Adopt the Resolution of Intent, and Resolution Proclaiming
Acceptance of the Moore County Floodplain Ordinance. The purpose of the Special
Meeting was to adopt a Resolution Declaring Certain Personal Property Surplus,
to consider the request from Lloyd McGraw on behalf of Chuck Watson to be
allowed to have apartments located in the Central Business District
“grandfathered in”, and Mr. Ron Jackson had asked to address the board.
However, Mr. Jackson was not present.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the Public Hearing to order at 6:02 p.m. On April
17, 2006 the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issued a Letter of
Final Determination for new flood insurance rate maps (FIRMS) for all of Moore
County. All local governments participating and those wishing to participate in
the National Flood Insurance Program and those wishing to maintain eligibility
for disaster mitigation funding must update their floodplain ordinances, and
adopt the new maps. The Town of Carthage would be doing this by adopting the
Interlocal Agreement with Moore County, as well as, adopting the Resolution of
Intent, and Resolution Proclaiming Acceptance of the Moore County Floodplain
Ordinance. There was no opposition to the adoption of the new floodplain maps.
After little discussion the board adopted the Interlocal Agreement with Moore
County and the new (FIRMS), following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board adopted the
Resolution of Intent, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board adopted the
Resolution Proclaiming Acceptance of the Moore County Floodplain Ordinance
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried. The Public Hearing was closed at 6:05 p.m.
V.   RESOLUTION DECLARING SURPLUS:
The board adopted the Resolution Declaring Certain Personal Property Surplus,
copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
Mr. Lloyd McGraw addressed the board on behalf of Chuck Watson, owner of the
property in question in the Central Business District. Previously he had
requested the board consider “grandfathering” the apartments to allow Mr.
Watson to renovate and rent two apartments located in the Central Business
District. Apartments are not permitted in the Central Business District. After
much discussion, the board decided this could not be done legally without
changing the Zoning Ordinance to allow apartments in the Central Business
District. A Public Hearing would have to be held, in order to consider this.
Commissioner Fields suggested that they try to rent the apartments for
commercial purposes. If this can not be accomplished, then he may come back to
the board and possibly request the Zoning Ordinance to be changed to allow for
residential apartments. The board decided to deny the request from Lloyd McGraw
to allow the apartments to be “grandfathered” following a motion made by
Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Mr. Milton Dowdy asked to address the board, concerning the proposed Hwy 24/27
Bypass. Mr. Dowdy had been appointed as the representative of a coalition of
citizens opposed to the proposed bypass. Mr. Dowdy asked for a statement from
the board concerning the proposed bypass. The citizens want reassurance from
the town that they will do everything possible to prevent the proposed routes
from happening. Commissioner Fields stated that the State DOT would not take
the Needmore Community. Commissioner Lapping assured Mr. Dowdy that this would
probably never happen in our lifetime. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood remarked
that the citizens from Stonegate Subdivision had asked the town to write a
letter of opposition to DOT concerning the proposed northern route. Mayor Pro-
Tem Walton referred this to Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, stating that the town
would write a letter to the DOT.
VII.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton adjourned the meeting at 6:33 pm.
___________________________      __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem
AUGUST 9, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 9, 2006
4:30 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Wednesday
August 9, 2006 at 4:30 p.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, Commissioners Jean Riley, Robert
Sullivan, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Present from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates was Bill Lester.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to meet with Bill Lester to discuss
water line improvements on Union Church Road.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood began by detailing monies collected so far for
impact fees from several ongoing subdivisions. Between the impacts fees
collected so far, the NCRC Grant funds and the impact fees that have not been
realized yet from the Cabin Branch and Meadows Subdivisions, the town would
have approximately $345,028.00 for water line improvements. Additionally, the
construction management & inspection fees could be reduced approximately
$15,000.00 because the Director of Public Works Rocky Davis is qualified to
oversee the work. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reviewed the funds that would be
available to fund this project remarking that the town would need to come up
with approximately $25,000.00. The board reviewed the preliminary cost estimate
for the water line improvement which is approximately $386,000.00, copy
attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Bill Lester, of Hobbs,
Upchurch & Associates began detailing the proposed improvements, outlining a
drawing with a proposed 12” water line that would run parallel to the existing
8” water line that runs out from the water plant out to Union Church Road. The
12” water line would go to approximately the whole length of Hwy 15-501 to
Union Church Road and then tie into the 8” line. This would help tremendously
with the water pressure problems. Bill Lester remarked that the proposed 12”
line would create 750 gallons per minute and 30 lbs. of residual. There was
much discussion concerning adding another water tank at the water plant. Bill
Lester indicated this would be something the town would need to look at doing
in the relatively near future. If a new water tank was added at the water
plant, along with the proposed improvements to the water line out Union Church
Road, this would essentially solve the town’s problems out Union Church Road.
There was much discussion.
   There was discussion concerning the proposed water tank out at Little River.
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton asked about the water tank being located out at Little
River, and who had made the decision for it to be located there. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood remarked she was told it needed to be located at Little River.
Bill Lester informed the board the proposed water tank for Little River will
not help the problems out on Union Church Road.
   There was discussion concerning different grants available. Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis emphasized that the 12” water line improvements were
needed even without the additional water tank at the water plant. Commissioner
Lapping remarked that the improvements were badly needed. It was decided that
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood would begin researching possible funding for this
project as soon as possible.
   The board agreed to move ahead with the proposed project as outlined by Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood, and Bill Lester, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   The board decided to defer a decision on advertising the vacancy on the Town
Commissioners Board until the September Regular Meeting.
   Meeting adjourned at 5:15 p.m., following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping.
___________________________      ____________________________
Melissa P Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem
AUGUST 21, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
JOINT MEETING
AUGUST 21, 2006
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Carthage Planning Board held a
joint meeting on Monday August 21, 2006 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building
located in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Robert
Sullivan was absent.
   Planning Board Members present were Vernon Kelly, Chris Lassiter, Bob Hunt,
Percy Degraffenreid, and Billy Salmon. A quorum.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire
Chief Joe Rorie, and Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Present from Little River Golf Resort, LLC were Fran Mullen, Blaine East,
Ben Minton, and Mary Majewski.
   Others present were Ron Jackson, along with many individuals who were with
Mr. Jackson, from the Chamber Linda Koonce, Reporter John Chappell from the
Pilot, as well as a reporter from the Moore County Independent.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 6:07 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Police Department – Introduction of New Employees: It was noted that
the introduction of two new employees will be postponed until the September
meeting, due to the employees being unable to attend.
   B.   Fran Mullen from Little River Golf Resort, LLC presented nine pods for
approval from the Carthage Planning Board and Board of Commissioners. The nine
pods were; Colonial Downs which consists of 82 Carriage Homes; Sacramento which
have 25 Carriage Homes; Pimlico which have 73 Townhomes; Aqueduct which
consists of 11 condominium buildings with 24 condos in each building for a
total of 264 condos; Horseman’s Park which will consist of the Members’
Clubhouse and many retail shops; Great Lake Downs which will have 105 Carriage
Homes; Finger Lakes which will have 13 Single-Family Homes; Bay Meadows which
consists of 27 Carriage Homes; and Santa Anita which will have 12 Carriage
Homes. Commissioner Lapping mentioned about the emergency entrance/exit for
each pod. Fran Mullen remarked that they will incorporate an emergency
entrance/exit for each pod, where feasible. There may be one or two places were
they may not be able to provide an alternate entrance/exit, because of other
people owning the property next to the proposed pods. However, it was noted
that there will be golf paths leading to and from all pods, and a vehicle would
be able to travel along a golf path, if necessary. Commissioner Fields
questioned the water/sewer plans, inquiring if there will be any dead end
lines. Fran Mullen replied that they are working with the engineers to ensure
that there will be as many looped lines as possible, remarking that there may
be one or two were looping may not be possible. Fran Mullen reported that they
will submit all water and sewer plans for approval to the Director of Public
Works. There was some discussion concerning where they would begin work, and
when, as well as, the possibility of Little River possibly purchasing the strip
of property that runs along Hwy 15-501 and Blues Siding Road. The Planning
Board and members of Little River Golf Resort adjourned to the next room to go
over any items that need to be addressed. Planning Board member Vernon Kelly
reported that the Planning Board recommends that all nine pods be approved. The
board approved all nine pods, with the understanding concerning the emergency
entrance/exits to each pods and looping the water lines, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping, and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes.
Motion carried. Fran Mullen spoke to the board remarking that on behalf of
everyone involved he wanted to thank everyone for all their support and help
concerning this project.
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:02 p.m. to hear comment on the
proposed Zoning Text Amendment to change the minimum heated square footage for
single-family homes and multifamily dwellings from a minimum of 1000 sq. ft. to
1200 sq. ft.
John Chappell inquired if perhaps Habitat for Humanity should be asked about
this proposed change, as it would affect them building houses in Carthage.
Roland Gilliam remarked that some people would not be able to build in Carthage
if the board increased the minimum heated living space requirement.
Commissioner Fields stated that the board did not want to prevent people from
building in Carthage, only to protect property values for citizens. It was
decided that this issue will go to the Planning Board to review, so that they
will be able to make a recommendation at the September Regular Meeting,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:
09 p.m.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The Board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   A.   Minutes Joint Planning Board/Board of Commissioners Meeting July 17,
2006
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting August 7, 2006
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting August 9, 2006
   D.   Budget Amendment #1 & 2
   E.   Budget Transfer #A
   F.    Budget Ordinance Amendment
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ron Jackson addressed the board concerning his subdivision Savannah’s
Garden remarking that he is trying to build affordable housing in Carthage.
However, in light of an issue with the Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
concerning the storm drains, Mr. Jackson remarked that he will have to increase
his costs to the build the homes. Mr. Jackson reported that Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis had told him that plastic would not be allowed at all. Mr.
Jackson informed the board he brought with him tonight, several people who
could attest to the use of plastic in building storms drains, catch basins, and
pipe. Mr. Jackson wanted the board to tell him if he will be required to use
concrete pipe for storm drains, and catch basin in his next Phase in the
Savannah’s Garden Subdivision. Commissioner Lapping informed Mr. Jackson that
the issue was that a set of plans were submitted for approval and they were
approved by this board, then changes were made to those plans without approval
from the board. Commissioner Lapping stated that if changes need to be made,
then he must come back to the town and get approval for those changes. Ron
Jackson remarked that he did not understand, that changes are made in the field
all the time, without approval. Mayor Caddell reiterated what Commissioner
Lapping had explained, stating that Director of Public Works Rocky Davis was
only doing his job, ensuring that plans which are submitted and approved are
carried out. Mayor Caddell asked that Mr. Jackson submit the documentation and
information concerning using the plastic, and the board will take it under
consideration after consulting with Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
There was much discussion with Mr. Jackson calling upon a salesperson Mr. David
Walsh for ADS, which sells HDPE plastic drainage systems, as well as an
engineer, who stated that the plastic has been proven to be as safe and
effective as concrete. Commissioner Fields reiterated what Mayor Caddell
stated, submit the plans for the next Phase and the documentation on the
plastic and the board will review it. Mr. Walsh suggested that Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis could meet with him as well as other representatives
to go over any questions concerning their product. Mr. Jackson stated he has
only tried to do what is right for Carthage, remarking that he has been a major
supporter of the Buggy Festival for two years in a row. Furthermore, he only
wants clarification on whether or not he would be able to use the plastic for
the drainage system for the next phase. Mayor Caddell replied that the board
cannot give him an answer to that question, until they are properly informed on
the product.
   B.   The board appointed Mark Fry to the Planning Board to replace Marvin
Hamer who had previously resigned, following a motion made by Commissioner
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved the Request from Dennis & Patricia Dutton for Non-
Contiguous Annexation as well as the Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate
a Petition Received Under G.S. 160A-31; the Certificate of Sufficiency; and the
Resolution Fixing the Date of the Public Hearing on Question of Annexation
[Pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2, as Amended, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   D.   Dutton Annexation - Certificate of Sufficiency was approved above.
   E.   Dutton Annexation - Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing on
Question of Annexation Pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2, As Amended was approved
above.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   The board approved sending the letter to DOT Concerning 24/27 Proposed
Bypass, along with the petition from Stonegate, but without the fact sheet,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton. 
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None. 
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
None.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G. S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
Commissioner Lapping made a motion to go into Closed Session. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board went into closed session at 7:53 p.m. Mayor Caddell
reconvened the Regular Meeting at 8:30 p.m. It was noted that there was no
action to be taken.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.
______________________________      _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 18, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 18, 2006
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday September 18, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building located in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping, and Ronnie Fields.
A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief Joe Rorie, and Police Administrative Assistant
Michelle Marsh.
   Also present were Rev. Chuck Plowman, Rick Gehl, Patrick Coughlin, Mary
Majewski, Ben Minton, Steve Cella, Shad Bryson, Dennis Dutton, and from the
Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced the new full-time Police
Department Administrative Assistant Michelle Marsh. Chief McKenzie remarked
that Michelle is from Carthage. The board welcomed Michele.
   B.   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood explained that the Buggy Festival had
recently met and voted to contribute funds to several organizations. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood asked Finance Officer Linda Phillips to come up and
make the presentations. Finance Officer Linda Philips presented a check on
behalf of the Buggy Festival to Rick Gehl for Moore Buddies. Mr. Gehl spoke
concerning how the money donated would be used, explaining that they are
starting several projects, which include plantings outside the building they
occupy in Carthage. In addition, they regularly take the kids on out of town
trips. Mr. Gehl thanked the Buggy Festival Committee on behalf of Moore Buddies
for all the community support.
Next Finance Officer Linda Phillips presented a check to Rev. Chuck Plowman,
Minister of the Carthage Methodist Church, for the Food Bank. Rev. Plowman
thanked the Buggy Festival Committee for the contribution.
Then Finance Officer Linda Phillips presented a check to Patrick Coughlin,
President of the Moore County Chamber, for a partial scholarship for the Moore
County Leadership Institute. Mr. Coughlin thanked the Buggy Festival Committee.
Last but not least, Finance Officer Linda Phillips presented a check to Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, to be used for the upcoming Public Safety Fair. Chief
McKenzie was very thankful for the donation.  
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:14 p.m. to hear comment
concerning Dennis & Patricia Dutton’s request for annexation. Recently they
experienced problems with their well, and they have since tapped onto town
water. No one was present to speak except for Mr. Dutton. Mayor Caddell closed
the Public Hearing at 7:16 p.m.
The board adopted the Annexation Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of
the Town of Carthage, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The Board approved the following item, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Joint Planning Board/Board of Commissioners Meeting August 21,
2006
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. The board
approved accepting the money from the insurance company for the damaged
building at the cemetery. Due to the cost of the brick repair it was decided to
tear down the building. Following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The Annexation Ordinance for Dennis & Patricia Dutton had previously
been adopted.
   B.   After some discussion, the board approved the proposed location of the
new water tank at Little River, as presented by Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates,
copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes, following a
motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   After little discussion, it was decided to change the October Regular
meeting from Monday October 16, 2006 to Wednesday October 18, 2006 at 7:00 p.m.
   D.   It was decided that Commissioner Lapping will be the voting delegate
for the NCLM Conference and Mayor Pro-Tem Walton will be the alternate.
   E.   There was much discussion concerning the wording of the last paragraph
of the proposed Infrastructure Agreement between the town and Little River
Properties, LLC. Commissioner Fields disagreed with the wording as presented,
that Little River would recover costs from the owners of any properties located
on the North side of McCaskill Road that may connect to and receive such sewer
collection/ transmission benefit. Commissioner Fields stated he felt that once
the town takes over the sewer improvement, it belongs to the town and any money
received should go to the town. Ms. Majewski clarified this was not intended to
mean impact or tap fees, only a portion of their cost of making improvements to
the sewer system that someone else may benefit from. There was some discussion.
Director of Public Works recommended the town access a capacity fee on behalf
of Little River. Mayor Caddell remarked he thought it only fair that Little
River recover some of the costs of the improvement. Commissioner Fields
remarked he did not think individual homeowners should be included, only
commercial or subdivisions. Commissioner Lapping made a motion to approve the
Infrastructure Agreement, between the town and Little River Properties, with
the modification that it only include commercial properties and subdivisions,
seconded by Commissioner Riley. Much discussion followed, with Commissioner
Lapping withdrawing his motion and Commissioner Riley withdrawing her second.
After much discussion, the board decided to table the Infrastructure Agreement
between the Town of Carthage and Little River Resort Properties, LLC, so that
Commissioner Lapping and Mary Majewski can meet and go over the wording for the
last paragraph, following a motion made by Commissioner Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The board decided to table the Intergovernmental Agreement Resolution,
so that Town Attorney Doug Gill could review the agreement, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Fields. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Fields stated that Judy Phillips recently experienced a water leak
in front of her house, and wanted to thank the Police Department and Public
Works Department for their fast response in repairing the leak. In addition,
Commissioner Fields remarked he had recently played golf at Little River and
had enjoyed it very much.
Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning his Legal Assistant Jasmine, informing
the board she had recently suffered a stroke. Commissioner Lapping remarked she
was recovering in the hospital.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Reporter John Chappell spoke about the upcoming Star Party in Robbins, to be
held the week of October 16, 2006. Mr. Chappell referred to Light Zoning, which
regulates sky friendly lighting. Commissioner Lapping asked about a possible
partnership with the Star Party, Robbins, Progress Energy, Randolph Electric,
and Carthage. John Chappell replied that that would be very possible, and
perhaps it could be discussed the night of the Star Party on October 18, 2006.
John Chappell invited all the board members to attend.
Mayor Caddell spoke concerning his replacement when he resigns to take the
County Commissioner Oath of Office. It was decided the board would hold a work
session on Wednesday October 18, 2006 at 6:00 P.M. Furthermore, Mayor Caddell
informed the board there will be a reception held at the Regular Meeting
November 20, 2006.
Shad Bryson, President of the Berryfield Homeowners Association spoke
concerning the problem with loose running dogs in his neighborhood. Mr. Bryson
remarked his neighborhood is experiencing more dog problems than ever. Mr.
Bryson explained he had reviewed the town’s animal control Ordinance. Mayor
Caddell asked that Chief McKenzie meet with Mr. Bryson after the meeting, and
then review the ordinance for a possible solution.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G. S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into a closed session to discuss a legal matter, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. The board went
into closed session at 7:58 p.m.
   The board moved back into regular session at 9:04 p.m. There was no action
taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 9:05 p.m.
_________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 18, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 18, 2006
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Wednesday
October 18, 2006 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building located in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W. C. Walton,
Commissioners Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields, Robert Sullivan, and Sherwood Lapping.
A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Planning
Board Member Chris Lassiter, and former Town Commissioner Tommy Stewart.
   Also in attendance were Gary McCabe, from the Moore County Independent, and
John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the Mayor’s replacement,
and the Town Board vacancy.
   Mayor Caddell opened the meeting at 6:03 p.m.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Walton gave the invocation.
   Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
   Discussion began concerning Mayor Larry Caddell’s election to the Moore
County Board of Commissioners. Mayor Caddell reported he will take office in
his new position in December, so he must resign as Mayor before he is sworn
into his new office as County Commissioner. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
explained that the board will need to decide on who they will appoint as Mayor,
from the present board. Then they will need to decide who they will appoint as
the new Commissioner. The board can come to an agreement on who they will
appoint, however they will not actually take office until the November Regular
Meeting, when Mayor Caddell resigns.
   Commissioner Lapping remarked that he felt that Mayor Pro-Tem Walton was the
most logical choice, stating that he thought he was an outstanding person to
serve as the next Mayor. The consensus from all the board members was that
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton should serve as Mayor when Mayor Caddell resigns to take
office as County Commissioner.
   Mayor Caddell explained that both Tommy Stewart and Planning Board Member
Chris Lassiter have expressed interest in serving as a replacement Commissioner
on the board. Mayor Caddell stated he personally thinks a lot of both of them.
   Mayor Caddell stated he had previously given his support to Tommy Stewart to
serve. Mayor Caddell explained that Tommy had expressed an interest in serving
once again on the Board of Commissioners. Mayor Caddell spoke concerning the
many years of experience that Tommy has. Mayor Caddell remarked that he felt
like Tommy was a second father to him. There was discussion among the board
Mayor Caddell reported that Planning Board member Chris Lassiter has expressed
an interest in serving on the board. Mayor Caddell explained that Chris has
been very active on the Carthage Planning Board and has stepped forward with a
willingness to serve on the Board of Commissioners. There was discussion among
the board.
Commissioner Lapping remarked about the growth at Little River, bringing
attention to the fact that Chris is employed by Little River. Commissioner
Lapping explained that in certain instances with regard to business concerning
Little River, this would be a conflict of interest for Chris. And he would have
to excuse himself from voting on any matters pertaining to Little River. Mayor
Pro-Tem Walton stated his first thought for a replacement was Tommy Stewart.
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton remarked that whom ever takes over as Mayor will need to
have the wisdom and advice that Tommy would be able to give. Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton expressed that he admired Chris’s willingness to serve, and encouraged
him to run in the next election. Commissioner Riley encouraged Chris to remain
active, remarking that she has been very impressed with him.
Commissioner Fields brought up the next election and whether or not Tommy or
Chris would run again for office. Mayor Caddell stated he felt like Tommy would
run again.
Chris Lassiter addressed the board, stating he was very honored to have been
considered, and that he will run in the next election.
Commissioner Lapping made a motion to go into a closed session, to discuss
personnel.
The board moved into a closed session at 6:30 p.m.
The board reconvened their regular session at 6:49 p.m. Mayor Caddell stated no
action was taken.
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 6:49 p.m.
__________________________      _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
OCTOBER 18, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 18, 2006
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Wednesday October 18, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry R. Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton,
Commissioners Ronnie Fields, Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping and Robert Sullivan.
A full board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Philips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Planning Board Chairman Billy Salmon, and Planning Board
Member Chris Lassiter.
   Others present were Tommy Stewart, Gary McCabe from the Moore County
Independent, and John Chappell, from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Walton had previously given the invocation at the Special Meeting
held earlier.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Lapping had previously led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance during the Special Meeting held earlier.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
There were none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following item, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Meeting September 18, 2006.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Fields asked about item #7 on the manager’s report. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood reported that if Little River sells a Pod, the town has already
approved all the pods at Little River and any new owner of any of the pods
would not be able to change anything.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   After little discussion, it was decided to nominate Mayor Pro-Tem
Walton to serve out the unexpired term of Mayor Caddell, and Tommy Stewart to
serve out the unexpired term of Mayor Pro-Tem Walton as Commissioner; to be
effective upon Mayor Caddell’s resignation at the November 20, 2006 meeting,
following a motion made by Commissioner Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment was tabled.
IX   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Planning Board Chairman Billy Salmon reported that at their regular
meeting held October 5, 2006 the Planning Board voted to recommend to the board
that the minimum heated square footage remain as it is.
   Commissioner Fields stated that the reason he had brought up this issue was
merely to improve the quality of homes being built in Carthage. After some
discussion the board decided to leave the minimum heated square footage as it
is, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Walton, and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Planning Board Regular Meeting Minutes October 5, 2006, which are and do become
part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Fields remarked about the recent fire in Apex, stating that the
Police Department and Fire Department should have a list of all the chemicals
that are stored at various locations in town. Commissioner Lapping stated that
the town needs to look at the Zoning Ordinance in regards to the possible
location of a business that would be storing chemicals, to ensure that they
would not be near a school or nursing home. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood had
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis come up and show the board the new
uniforms the Public Works crew will be wearing. Everyone was very pleased with
the new uniforms.
Mayor Caddell spoke concerning his years serving as Mayor, remarking that at
times the board may have had disagreements, however everyone has always
respected each other. Mayor Caddell reiterated that the board’s focus has
always been what would be in the best interest for the citizens of the town.
Mayor Caddell stated he has appreciated the opportunity to serve as the Mayor
of Carthage.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell spoke concerning Star Party in Robbins going on this week.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 7:33 p.m.
______________________________      _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 14, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 14, 2006
4:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Tuesday
November 18, 2006 at 4:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building located in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner
Ronnie Fields was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams
and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
Also attending were Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch, & Associates, Fran
Mullen, Blaine East and Mary Majewski from Little River Golf Resort, LLC, and
concerned citizen Tommy Stewart.
   John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper and a reporter from the Moore County
Independent were also in attendance.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the Little River project;
discussion concerning a request from Habitat for Humanity for a CDBG Housing
Grant; and a request from Barbeque 2 U to place a mobile barbeque trailer on
the lot between Parks Street and Monroe Street.
   Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
   Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
   Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that Habitat for Humanity has asked
the town to apply for a CDBG Housing Grant on their behalf to assist in
building 14 homes on Needmore Road. The total grant would be approximately
$250,000. This would help pay for water and sewer lines to be extended to eight
houses that are not alongside Needmore Road. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood
explained that Habitat can not apply for the grant, so the town would have to
apply. Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates will administer the grant. Bill Lester from
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates informed the board that two Public Hearings have
to be held by the end of the year in order to qualify for any grant monies. The
first Public Hearing, scheduled for November 20, 2006 is only a generic public
hearing, and does not lock the town into having to apply for the grant. Town
Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that no action was needed at this time.
   Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that she had received a request from
the grandson of the owner of John’s Barbeque, Ashley Sheppard to place a mobile
barbeque trailer on the lot between Parks Street and Monroe Street three days a
week from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The Gospel Chapel owns the triangular piece of
property and has given their permission for him to use it. Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood remarked that Mr. Sheppard is considering opening a permanent
restaurant in Carthage and would like to try this option temporarily to see if
he would have enough business. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported she
checked with the Police Department concerning the traffic and parking, and
Chief McKenzie reported he thought there would not be any problems with traffic
or parking. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reiterated this would only be
temporary, possibly only for a few months and no action was needed form the
board.
   Fran Mullen from Little River began with a presentation of a general update
on the progress at the Little River, some mapping changes, an update on the
retail village plans, and water and sewer master plans.
   Blaine East presented an outline of the Village Commons, the retail village,
remarking some changes have been made to the plans. Mr. East remarked plenty of
pedestrian walkways have been added, along a river running through the
property. Mr. East reported that an upscale Ace Hardware is very interested in
being located on the property, along with a seven screen movie theater and 14
lane bowling alley, with a restaurant. Mr. East remarked the village will also
have an outdoor amphitheater, a large medical facility, a cultural facility
with living quarters above it, a three tier senior living center, an assortment
of retail buildings, along with a full service restaurant such as Carrabas. Mr.
East explained the majority of the parking will be along Hwy 22 & McCaskill
Road, with plenty of buffers in between. The buildings will look like they have
two fronts instead of a front & back. They are still working on securing a
large grocery store for the village. However, Fran Mullen reported they hope to
break ground after the first of the year.
   Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning the Dark Park, and reiterated that sky
friendly lighting should be considered for the retail area.
   Next Fran Mullen presented proposed homes for the Colonial Downs Pod,
remarking the lay out is somewhat different than what they had previously
submitted, with more green space. They will present this again when the lay out
is more defined than what they have now.
   Mr. Mullen presented the water and sewer master plans, remarking that they
will be working very closely with Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and
Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates to finalize these plans.
   Next Mr. Mullen brought attention to possible locations of the proposed
water tank. They have two possible locations they would like the board to
consider, along Hwy 15-501 and the 17th tee along McCaskill Road. Mr. Mullen
stressed the town will have the final say on the final decision on where the
water tank will be located.
   It was suggested that Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood, Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, and Fran Mullen
get together and go over these water & sewer master plans as well as possible
locations for the water tank.
   Fran Mullen reported there had been some changes made to the lot occupied by
the Dierkings, reporting that the driveway and garage was relocated, and the
lot was increased by approximately ten feet.
   Other items discussed were a new roadway extension around the proposed hotel
to the condos.
   Mayor Caddell adjourned the meeting at 5:20 p.m.
_________________________         ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Larry R. Caddell, Mayor
NOVEMBER 20, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 20, 2006
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday November 20, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Larry Caddell, Mayor Pro-Tem W.C. Walton, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Robert Sullivan, and Ronnie Fields. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, numerous Police Officers, as
well as several town employees.
   Also present were Clerk of Court Catherine Graham, and her husband Al
Graham, Lisa Caddell, numerous members of Mayor Caddell’s family, and friends,
Starla Hughes, CPA from Sharrard, McGee, & Co., P.A., John Chappell from the
Pilot Newspaper, and Gary McCabe from the Moore County Independent were also in
attendance.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Caddell called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Mayor Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
Starla Hughes from Sharrard, McGee, & Co., P.A. presented the FY 2005 – 2006
Audit, copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Town Manager Carol Cleetwood reported that this Public Hearing must be held in
order for the town to apply for CDBG Grant money. Habitat for Humanity has
requested that the town apply for a CDBG Grant on their behalf. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood reported that another Public Hearing would have to be held
before the end of the year. Mayor Caddell opened the Public Hearing at 7:14
p.m. Mayor Caddell closed the Public Hearing at 7:15 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting October 18, 2006.
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 18, 2006.
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting November 14, 2006.
   D.   Budget Amendments #3, #4, #5.
   E.   Budget Transfer B, C.
VII.   RESIGNATION OF MAYOR CADDELL:
Mayor Caddell read aloud, his letter of resignation, copy attached, which is
and does become part of these minutes. Mayor Pro-Tem Walton presented former
Mayor Caddell with an engraved clock. Town Manager Carol Cleetwood presented
him with a golf sweater from Little River on behalf of all the employees.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Clerk of Court Catherine Graham administered the oath of office to new
Mayor W.C. “Bill” Walton and to Commissioner Tommy Stewart. Everyone
congratulated them.
   B.   The board approved making Ronnie Fields Mayor Pro-Tem following a
motion made by Commissioner Sullivan and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved Jean Riley as an authorized check signer, following
a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board agreed to not change the regular meeting for December 18,
2006. Due to the Martin Luther King Holiday the board changed the January
regular meeting date from January 15, 2007 to Tuesday January 16, 2007,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   ADJOURNMENT:  
The board adjourned the meeting at 7:33 p.m. A reception honoring former Mayor
Caddell was held following the meeting.
_____________________________      _______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   W.C. Walton, Mayor
DECEMBER 18, 2006
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 18, 2006
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday December 18, 2006 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Jean Riley, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Cleetwood, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and Fire
Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also in attendance were George Pence, Steve Ennis, Bill Lester from Hobbs,
Upchurch & Associates, and reporter Gary McCabe from the Moore County
Independent.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
The following item was added to the agenda, following a motion made by
Commissioner Riley and seconded by Commissioner Lapping; under New Business,
item H, Resolution in Support of the CDBG Grant for Habitat for Humanity.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   George Pence addressed the board concerning the 2008 Census Dress
Rehearsal to be held in this area. Mr. Pence reported that the 2008 Census
Dress Rehearsal will be held in Fayetteville, Eastern North Carolina & Moore
County. He explained he will be responsible for hiring a large number of people
for this work in this area. Mr. Pence remarked he came to address the board
tonight to ask for the town’s help in getting the word out to people that this
is legitimate work, beginning at $11.50 an hour. Other municipalities have put
posters up, and put notices on the water bills. Mayor Walton spoke to Mr. Pence
and assured him that the town will do everything we can to assist him. It was
decided that the town will post a notice on the website, put a notice on the
water bills, and when the next newsletter goes out, Town Manager Carol
Cleetwood will write an article about the employment opportunity with the
Census. Mr. Pence thanked the board for all their support.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Walton opened the Public Hearing for the CDBG Grant for Habitat
for Humanity at 7:00 p.m. Mr. Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates
explained that Habitat for Humanity has a proposed housing development that
they would like the town to apply for funds for infrastructure, on their
behalf. The town is not expected to expend any funds for the project. After
some discussion concerning the funds for water and sewer tap fees and water and
sewer impact fees, the board made it very clear that they expected Habitat to
pay all required fees. Additionally, Mayor Pro-Tem Fields brought attention to
dead-end lines. This was discussed, and it was noted there will not be any
dead-end lines where feasible. Mayor Walton closed the Public Hearing at 7:13
p.m.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: The board approved the following items following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 20, 2006
   B.    Budget Amendments #6
   C.    Budget Transfer D
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Cleetwood brought attention to Public Works Director Rocky Davis, who
wished to address the board concerning the purchase of a new truck. Rocky
reported that one of the town trucks had recently caught on fire, and that
several of the trucks are in terrible shape. After much discussion it was
decided to approve purchase of a new truck, with financing for 6 months, with
Town Finance Officer Linda Phillips responsible for working out the best
possible financing options, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. Three ayes. Two nays. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and
Commissioner Stewart voted nay. Commissioner Stewart asked that Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis gather information on what it would take to get the
trucks up to par within the next 12 to 14 months. Commissioner Lapping reported
he thought an assessment should be done and presented at the Budget Retreat.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
A. The board approved the Resolution Supporting the Formation of Task Forces
for the Moore County Summit, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All yes. Motion carried. It was decided
that Commissioner Lapping and Town Manager Carol Cleetwood will serve on the
Shared Services Task Force, Commissioner Stewart and Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis will serve on the Water and Transportation Task Force, and Town
Clerk Melissa Adams will serve on the Real Estate Transfer Fees Task Force.
The following items were approved following one motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping, all ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate a Petition Received by
American Legion Post #12 for a Contiguous Annexation
   C.   Certificate of Sufficiency – American Legion Post #12
   D.   Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing for Annexation Request-
American Legion Post #12
The following items were approved following one motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate a Petition Received by
Christian Child Development, Inc. for a Non-Contiguous Annexation
   F.    Certificate of Sufficiency – Christian Child Development, Inc.
   G.    Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing for Annexation Request-
Christian Child Development, Inc.
   H.   The board approved the Resolution in support of the CDBG Grant for for
infrastructure improvements for the Habitat For Humanity project, provided that
it will be at no cost to the town, there be no dead end water/sewer lines where
possible, and that they be required to pay all water/sewer impact and tap fees,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes.
Motion carried.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Riley commended Town Clerk Melissa Adams for all her hard work on
the Christmas Parade. Commissioner Riley remarked it was a wonderful Christmas
Parade. Commissioner Sullivan agreed. Commissioner Lapping remarked the whole
town had been beautifully decorated for Christmas. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields
inquired to Finance Officer Linda Phillips regarding eliminating everyone’s
complete social security number on their payroll checks. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields
remarked that the State only lists the last four numbers. Finance Officer Linda
Phillips remarked she thought this would be something the computer software
company would have to change. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields asked Bill Lester about the
water tank location. Bill Lester remarked there has not been any decision made
concerning a definite location. The board urged Bill Lester to get with
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and nail down a location, then present it
to the board.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(1) (6):
The board went into a closed session at 7:13 p.m. to discuss personnel,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping. The board resumed their
regular session at 7:39 p.m. It was noted there was no action to be taken.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 7:40 p.m.
   ___________________________      ____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   W.C. Walton, Mayor
2007 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 16, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 16, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Tuesday January 16, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Sullivan
was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Officer Patricia Goodwin, Administrative Assistant
Karen O’Hara, and Fire Chief Brain Tyner.
   Concerned citizens present were Lisa Reynolds, Roy Hardy, Robert Faulkner,
Vicki Mehta, Caleb Miles, John Chappell, reporter for the Pilot, and Gary
McCabe, reporter for the Montgomery Post.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks introduced new Administrative Assistant Karen
O’Hara. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that Karen started two weeks ago,
and already is a valuable asset to the town.
   B.   Police Chief McKenzie introduced new Police Officer Trish Goodwin,
remarking that she has many years of experience, having worked for the
Montgomery Sheriff’s Department and Troy Police Department.
   C.   Mayor Walton  presented a plaque for the “Best Christmas Window
Display” for December 2006 to Lisa Reynolds owner of Lisa’s Boutique.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks recognized Town Clerk Melissa Adams for her
completion of the second level of the IIMC Master Municipal Clerk Academy.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks then announced that Finance Officer Linda Phillips
has been appointed Assistant Town Manager.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Walton opened the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m. Roy Hardy,
President of the American Legion Post 12 spoke concerning their request for a
contiguous annexation of approximately 3.49 acres between Shady Lane Road and
Legion Hut Road. Mr. Hardy reported that they have done extensive renovations
to the building, making it handicapped accessible. Mr. Hardy stated they would
like for it to be used for all sorts of community purposes. They have hooked
onto town water, but are having issues with the sewer. Mr. Hardy stated they
may try to use the existing septic system because of the expense involved in
pumping the sewer. Mr. Hardy invited the board to a future “open house”. Mr.
Robert Faulkner thanked the board for allowing them to hook onto town water,
and the opportunity to have the property annexed into the town limits. Mayor
Walton closed the Public Hearing at 7:16 p.m.  
    B.    Mayor Walton opened the Public Hearing at 7:16 p.m. Vicki Mehta
addressed the board concerning her request for a non-contiguous annexation,
stating that she has recently been appointed to the Agro-tourism Board. Ms.
Mehta remarked that her plans for the Christian Child Development property is
to do extensive renovations and to house a catering/fresh market store with a
gift shop. Ms. Mehta stated that because of the Little River project, she
wanted to make improvements to her property. Ms. Mehta also indicated that the
annexation was important to her because of the Police protection for her
buildings. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields inquired about the access to her property. Ms.
Mehta replied she has access from both Hwy 15-501 and Blue’s Siding Road.
Mayor Walton closed the Public Hearing at 7:25 p.m.
VII   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting December 18, 2006
   B.    Budget Amendments #7, #8 
   C.    Budget Transfer E , F & G    
VII   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. It was noted
that Director of Public Works Rocky Davis had found an alternative to
purchasing a new truck.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Caleb Miles from the Convention & Visitors Bureau gave the board a
presentation concerning a Phase I Study, recently conducted concerning a
feasibility study for a Convention Center and/or an Amateur Athletic Complex
for Moore County. After presenting the Power-point presentation to the board,
Mr. Miles remarked that they are now in the process of obtaining feed back from
the Municipalities, before deciding if they will continue with Phase II of the
project, which will include obtaining construction costs, financing options,
ownership management options, and economic impacts. Mr. Miles remarked he
 would like the board to fill out a questionnaire concerning the proposed
project and submit it to the Visitors & Convention Bureau within the next
month. Commissioner Lapping asked if they have considered an aquatics park. Mr.
Miles remarked it has been considered but was not sure why it was not addressed
in Phase I, but would check to see why. Mayor Walton thanked Mr. Miles for his
presentation.
   B.   The board approved the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits for The
American Legion Post 12 Annexation, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits for
Christian Child Development, Inc., following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved the Resolution to Declare Certain Property Surplus
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Fields, with Mayor Pro-Tem Fields stating the money is to stay in Public Works.
All ayes. Motion carried.  
   E.   The board adopted the Interlocal Agreement with Moore County for Tax
Collection, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   F.   The board set the date for the Budget Retreat for February 27, 2007 to
begin at 8:30 a.m. 
VI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
VII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copy of the Planning Board minutes January 4, 2007 is attached, which are and
do become part of these minutes. Commissioner Riley referred to the minutes and
inquired why the junk cars continue to be a problem. Town Manager Carol Sparks
replied that Code Enforcement Officer John Gibbons will be addressing this
issue at the February 8, 2007 Planning Board meeting.
VIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning hazardous materials in the different
zoning districts, remarking that he would like the Planning Board to review the
Zoning classifications that allow for hazardous materials. Furthermore
Commissioner Lapping brought attention to the walkway paths located at Nancy
Kiser Park, remarking that they are over-grown with weeds and littered with
garbage.
Mayor Pro-Tem Fields stated that newly elected Representative Joe Boylan would
like an opportunity to meet with the board. After a brief discussion, it was
decided that Mayor Pro-Tem Fields will contact Mr. Boylan to see if he is
available to meet with the board during lunch at the February 27, 2007 Budget
Retreat.
Mayor Walton spoke concerning Little River and the proposed water tank
location. After some discussion it was decided by consensus of the board that
Town Manager Carol Sparks will negotiate the location of the water tank with
representatives of Little River. Mayor Walton also brought attention to the
future BRAC Realignment, remarking that the town should come up with a plan for
attracting people to move to our town, while still maintaining the “small town”
atmosphere that we enjoy. Mayor Walton also asked Town Manager Carol Sparks to
research an ordinance to address burned out property that would require that
the owners clean the property up & remove the debris.  
IX.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Chamber representative Linda Koontz remarked she was leaving a copy of the
Chamber Lifestyle Magazine with Town Manager Carol Sparks for the board. John
Chappell, reporter for the Pilot reported that Robbins was planning to have a
Spring Festival April 14, 2007.
X.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (1)
(6):
The board went into a closed session at 8:30 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping. The board resumed their regular meeting at 9:09 p.m.
Mayor Walton remarked there was no action taken.
XI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 9:09 p.m.  
___________________________         ______________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
FEBRUARY 19, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 19, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday February 19, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Commissioners Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan,
Sherwood Lapping, and Tom Stewart. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer/Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Police
Sgt. Rick Bickel, Police Officer Justin Garner, Police Officer Jason Waters,
Fire Chief Brain Tyner, and Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara.
   Also present were Fran Mullen, Mary Majewski, Blaine East, Bob Gallow, Bill
Lester from Hobbs Upchurch & Associates, John McDonald, Steve Ennis, and from
the Pilot Newspaper Reporter John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie announced that Police Officer Justin Garner
was being promoted to the rank of Corporal. Police Captain Bart Davis pinned
Corporal Garner with his Corporal stripes. Chief McKenzie remarked he has done
an exceptional job for the town. Everyone congratulated him. Police Chief
McKenzie announced that Sgt. Rick Bickel has been named “Police Officer of the
Year”. Captain Davis pinned Sgt. Bickel with his “Officer of the Year” pin.
Chief McKenzie remarked that Rick has consistently gone beyond the call of duty
in his day to day performance. Everyone congratulated Sgt. Bickel.
   B.   Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that due to Finance
Officer Linda Phillips recently being appointed as Assistant Town Manager,
Administrative Assistant Karen O’ Hara has been appointed as Deputy Town Clerk,
a title previously held by Linda. Town Clerk Melissa Adams gave the oath of
office to Karen O’Hara. Everyone congratulated Karen on her new title.
   C.   Lee Chrisco, who had requested to address the board concerning the
parking problems downtown, was not present. Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke
concerning Mr. Chrisco’s request that the town specify parking spaces directly
in front of his barbershop for his customers only. In addition Rick Edleman,
owner of the old Fire Department building has requested that the spaces in
front of the building be changed back to “no parking”. He has a business that
lists and sells item on eBay and has said that he needs the spaces for
unloading merchandise. After a brief discussion and consultation with Police
Chief Chris McKenzie, it was decided that Town Manager Carol Sparks send
letters to both Mr. Chrisco and Mr. Edelman, denying their request.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 16, 2007
   B.   Budget Amendments #9, #10
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.  
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
None.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Commissioner Lapping began discussion concerning the proposed Hwy 24/27
bypass. Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning the upcoming widening of Hwy 24/
27, and how it will be bringing more traffic into the center of town.
Commissioner Lapping indicated he felt the proposed bypass should not be taken
off of the DOT agenda. Because of the widening, there will be increased traffic
feeding into the center of town, through a Historic District and around the old
Courthouse. Commissioner Lapping spoke strongly about the need for a bypass.
Commissioner Lapping stated he felt the widening and the proposed bypass should
be done in conjunction with one another. The board decided to send a Resolution
to the DOT, indicating how the Board of Commissioners stand concerning the
widening and the proposed bypass, and requesting that the dates be moved up for
the proposed bypass, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner
Lapping remarked he felt the most Southerly route of the proposed bypass makes
the most sense and is the route the town should support. Town Manager Carol
Sparks remarked that a subcommittee has been appointed to study the Southern
route. 
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping reported that a new Optometrist Dr. Susan Bailey is moving
into the old County Office located at 101 Monroe Street. Commissioner Lapping
has invited her to attend the next town meeting. Mayor Walton remarked about
the growth in general and at Cabin Branch Subdivision, due to the number of
Certificates of Zoning Compliances issued in the last month. Mayor Walton
remarked about the enormous traffic increase due to New Century Middle School,
as well as the construction traffic at the Cabin Branch Subdivision. Mayor
Walton indicated he would like the DOT to revisit the issue of a turning lane,
which they previously stated was not needed. It was decided to send a request
to recount the traffic located at New Century Middle School to the North
Carolina Department of Transportation for the issue of installing a turning
lane located at the New Century Middle School, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell reported that the Coffee Court has live music on Friday nights.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS REAL PROPERTY G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5):
Commissioner Lapping made a motion to go into a closed session to discuss real
property acquisition. Motion carried. The board moved into a closed session at
7:31 p.m. Mayor Walton reconvened the regular meeting at 8:51 p.m. It was noted
there was no action taken.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:51 p.m.
___________________________      ___________________________
            Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk    W.C. Walton, Mayor
FEBRUARY 27, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET RETREAT
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2007
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Retreat on
Tuesday February 27, 2007 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Fire Department located
within the Carthage Municipal Building.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, and Tom Stewart. A quorum. Commissioner Robert
Sullivan was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Assistant
Town Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a Budget Workshop/Retreat for the
fiscal year 2007 – 2008.
   Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 8:45 a.m.
   Mayor Walton spoke briefly concerning a meeting that Fran Mullen of Little
River has requested with Town Manager Carol Sparks, Mayor Walton, and Mayor
Pro-Tem Fields. There was some discussion.
   Discussion and work session began concerning the upcoming 2007 – 2008
proposed budget. There was discussion concerning raising the garbage fee from
$8.00 per can to $10.00 per can. Commissioner Lapping recommended raising the
fee to $10.00 per can.
   Commissioner Lapping brought attention to the Business License fees,
remarking that he would like to see the Moore County Summit address the issue
of having the State Legislature review the fee schedule.
   Next Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke concerning the sewer charges the town
is incurring; indicating that the cost of the sewer has almost doubled what the
town is presently billing sewer customers. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported
that Director of Public Works Rocky Davis has smoked sewer lines, and has
tirelessly been investigating the difference in the amount the town bills and
the amount the County bills the town. Town Manager Carol Sparks referred to the
proposed increases in the sewer charges for the FY 2007 – 2008. Much discussion
followed. It was decided to not recommend an increase in the sewer rate at this
time, to wait and see if Director of Public Works Rocky Davis can get to the
bottom of the difference in what the town is being billed for sewer and the
amount the town bills its sewer customers.
   There was some discussion concerning the proposed increases to the Zoning
Fees. Commissioner Fields indicated he thought the increase for new
construction was too high. It was decided to wait until the next Budget Meeting
to make a decision on the proposed fees.
   There was discussion concerning the town travel policy, with Finance Officer
Linda Phillips remarking that the current policy is outdated and that the daily
allowance should be increased. It was recommended to increase the daily amount
to $32.00 which is what the State allows. The board approved the proposed
change to the Credit Card Policy, copy attached, which is and does become part
of these minutes.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Police Captain Bart Davis went over the
outline of the Police Department equipment needs, as well as personnel,
possible grants, goals and objectives for the FY 2007 – 2008. It was noted that
the proposed budget for the Police Department was in line with last year’s
budget, except for increases in gasoline, contract services, nor does it
include pay increases.
   Fire Chief Brian Tyner began discussion concerning the Fire Department
remarking that the Carthage Rescue Squad has asked for assistance from the Fire
Department. Some discussion followed concerning the two agencies being
combined. It was decided they needed to remain separate entities at this time.
Fire Chief Brian Tyner discussed his request for additional part-time
firefighters. There was discussion concerning recruiting volunteers. Other
items discussed were a proposed substation in the northern end of the county
that could be shared with the County.
   The Board of Commissioners and Department Heads took a break for lunch at
11:45 a.m.
   The Board of Commissioners resumed the budget retreat at 12:45 p.m.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks opened discussion concerning the proposed budget
for Public Works beginning with the Rural Center Grant projects. Much
discussion followed. Town streets and sidewalks were discussed. Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis spoke concerning the possibility of having a Sanitary
Sewer Condition Survey done. Much discussion followed. Next, the board reviewed
items pertaining to the town water system.
   Commissioner Lapping brought attention to the possibility of the Municipal
Building becoming a shelter. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the Red
Cross was supposed to inspect the building but has never come to do so.
   Commissioner Lapping discussed the proposed 24/27 bypass.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks went over Planning and Development, as well as
Special Events and Recreation. There was a brief discussion concerning the town
donating to the Buggy Festival, but it was decided not to do so, as they needed
to be kept separate.
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 3:15 p.m.
____________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
MARCH 19, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 19, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday March 19, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, and Jean Riley. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Finance Officer/
Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart
Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Carthage Elementary School Principal Cheryl Ann Jackson
and her husband, Mr. & Mrs. James Conway, and Pilot Newspaper Reporter John
Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Cheryl Ann Jackson, Principal of Carthage Elementary School presented
the Police Department with letters and posters from the students thanking the
Police Department for all they do for the Elementary School.
   B.   Charles Prevost from the Carthage Historical Committee was not present
to discuss having the original NC Bill of Rights at 2008 Buggy Festival. Town
Manager Carol Sparks addressed the board concerning the idea of having the NC
Bill of Rights displayed at the 2008 Buggy Festival. Commissioner Lapping
indicated he thought we should investigate having the original Town Charter
displayed also. Town Manager Carol Sparks will look into the possibility of
having both located at the festival as well as, possible locations for their
display.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 19, 2007
   B.   Minutes Closed Session February 19, 2007
   C.   Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Retreat February 27, 2007
   D.   Budget Amendments #11, #12, #13
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. 
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   After some discussion it was decided to table the Water/Sewer Tap &
Impact fees for Little River Golf Resort in order to have a workshop with
representatives from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates and Little River involved,
following a motion made by Commissioner Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board approved the Proclamation of Appreciation to Nezzie Smith
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   After a brief discussion it was decided to locate the new water tank at
the Water Plant following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Fields.
   B.   After a brief discussion it was decided to approve the Rescue Squad/
Fire Department Agreement, with the sentence containing Fire Board to be
deleted and Priority I Calls to be included, following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Carthage Historical Committee Meeting February 8, 2007, copy attached which is
and does become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Riley commented on the wonderful job the Historical Committee does
every year on the Buggy Festival Golf Tournament. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields
commended the Chief of Police and the Police Department for the wonderful job
they do for the town. Commissioner Lapping remarked about the appearance of the
town. Commissioner Lapping would like to see the Code Enforcement more actively
pursued to clean up the appearance of the town. Commissioner Lapping brought
attention to the possibility of reactivating an appearance committee and grant
them power to give out notices to property owners that are not compliant with
town ordinances. Additionally, Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning an animal
ordinance, to possibly have the Planning Board review the ordinances. There was
some discussion. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields indicated he thought the fines should be
increased. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that a letter had been mailed to
the owner of the house that had burned on Summitt Street. Commissioner Sullivan
remarked about the condition of the Granny’s Mercantile and the farmer’s market
with all the stuff sitting outside. Mayor Walton remarked that he had received
several complaints concerning the appearance of Granny’s Mercantile.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell spoke concerning a recent meeting at the UNC Center for Civil
Rights in which Carthage resident Milton “T” Dowdy spoke in reference to the
success of the Needmore sewer project. New resident John Conway remarked that
he has been a proud and happy resident of the Town of Carthage for nine months.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
None.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 7:50 p.m.   
   ___________________________ ___________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk W. C. Walton, Mayor
APRIL 5, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 5, 2007
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting, Thursday, April 5,
2007 at 10:00 a.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor W. C. Walton, Mayor Pro-tem, Ronnie Fields,
Commissioners Sherwood Lapping, Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan and Tom Stewart.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Manager/Finance
Officer Linda Phillips, Public Works Director Rocky Davis and Town Attorney
Doug Gill.
Also present were Governor James Holshouser, Fred Hobbs and Bill Lester of
Hobbs, Upchurch and Associates and Mary Majewski of Little River Golf Resort.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 10:08 a.m.
II.    OLD BUSINESS:
   Mayor Walton stated that the purpose of the meeting was to discuss having an
adequate water supply to Little River Golf Resort. He recognized Governor
Holshouser and thanked him for his efforts in helping the Town to obtain a
grant from the N. C. Rural Center to meet the additional need of a 12” water
line from the Town water plant down highway 15/501 to highway 22 to proposed
shopping center site with a stub into Littler River at back gate. The grant is
contingent on the creation of 50 jobs from the proposed hotel and shopping
center businesses.
   Mayor Walton asked Governor Holshouser to speak concerning the steps that
have been taken and what else is needed in order for the Town to go forward
with the grant application.
   Governor Holshouser said that he had spoken with Billy Ray Hall of the N.C.
Rural Center to see if there was still available funding for this year in the
Rural Center. Mr. Hall stated that there was for water and sewer needs. A
meeting was set up with Patrick Woodie of the Rural Center with Governor
Holshouser, Mayor Walton, Carol Sparks, Linda Phillips, Fred Hobbs, Bill Lester
and Mary Majewski on Tuesday, April 3, 2007. Hobbs, Upchurch and Associates are
to provide the paperwork necessary to apply for the grant. The Town Board and
representative from Little River Golf Resort would meet today to discuss an
agreement between the Town and Little River Golf Resort for the funding needed
for the grant application.
   Governor Holshouser presented the proposed agreement between Town and Little
River Resort Properties. There were questions concerning items #3, 4, 5 and 7.
After much discussion, Governor Holshouser is to make changes within these
items in the agreement. He will email these changes to the Town Manager for
distribution to the Board. The Board, Governor Holshouser and Mary Majewski
will meet again at 2:00 p.m. to review the changes and decide as whether or not
to proceed with the grant application.
III.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Walton requested that the Board members look at their calendars and
consider changing date of the regular monthly board meeting for May, as he has
a conflict for the regular date. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields requested that we stay on
top of the trash at Nancy Kiser Park. He also requested that signs be made and
placed at the tennis courts stating no skate boards.
Commissioner Riley stated she had several requests concerning our limb pickup.
There being no other business from the Commissioners, the meeting was recessed
at 11:46 p.m. to reconvene at 2:00 p.m.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners meeting was reconvened by Mayor Walton at
2:08 p.m.
OLD BUSINESS continued:
   Mayor Walton asked if each one had looked over the revised agreement with
Little River Golf Resort. Mayor Pro-tem Fields asked about item #6 and it was
requested that line eight of item #6 be changed at end of line to system
instead of tank. Mayor Walton requested that on item #4, last line include such
as interconnect with Southern Pines or Moore County water systems. He also
requested that in item #5, line 10, the word residential be deleted and the
sentence to end after the word development, deleting the remainder of sentence.
Mayor Pro-tem Fields wanted it noted that he is still not in agreement with
item #4 concerning the Town guaranteeing adequate water and pressure for the
100% completion of the project.
Commissioner Lapping made a motion to proceed with the grant application and to
accept the agreement between the Town and Little River Golf Resort with the
noted amendments. Commissioner Riley seconded the Motion. The vote was four
ayes, one nay. It was requested that Bill Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch and
Associates proceed with sending the grant application to the Rural Center.
Governor Holshouser is to make the requested changes to the agreement and have
it to the Town Manager on Monday, April 9, 2007.
   Mayor Walton thanked Governor Holshouser for his work on this project.
   The meeting was adjourned by Mayor Walton at 2:20 p.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Linda Phillips, Deputy Clerk         W. C. Walton, Mayor
APRIL 16, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 16, 2007
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday, April
16, 2007 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, and Robert Sullivan. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Volunteer Firefighter Junior
Vest. John Chappell, reporter for the Pilot Newspaper was also in attendance.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was for the Board of Commissioners to
review the proposed contract with Moore County for fire protection services.
   Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
   The board proceeded to review the proposed contract. Fire Chief Brian Tyner
and Firefighter Junior Vest displayed several maps of the town and the fire
service district.
   Mayor Walton brought attention to the ratio of fire calls that were in town
and those that were out in the district. Fire Chief Brian Tyner reported
approximately 30% of the fire calls are in town and 70% are in the district.
   There was much discussion concerning the wording in the proposed contract,
specifically wording that referred to fire district money. Commissioner Lapping
remarked that any reference to fire district money should be removed from the
contract.
   There was much discussion concerning the standards. Commissioner Stewart
remarked that there seemed to be a lot of standards that the county wanted the
town to adhere to. Commissioner Stewart stated he felt a lot of the proposed
standards should not be in the proposed contract. It simply was a contract
between the town and the county in order for the town to provide fire
protection in the fire district.
   After much discussion, it was decided to have all the Town Managers with
Fire Districts, and Fire Chiefs, along with some board members meet and review
the proposed contract, and come back with a decision at the May meeting. Mayor
Walton, Commissioner Stewart, and Commissioner Lapping will represent the
Carthage Board of Commissioners at any meetings that will be set up.
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 6.33 p.m.
_______________________________      ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
APRIL 16, 2007
AGENDA
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 16, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday April 16, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Finance Officer/
Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Captain Bart Davis,
and Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Also present were Ray Ogden from Partners in Progress, and John Chappell
from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Ray Ogden from Partners In Progress began by speaking about his recent
visit at Ft. Bragg with Special Operations. In addition, he also spoke briefly
concerning his trip to China. Mr. Ogden then addressed the board concerning
this past year’s activities of Partners In Progress. Mr. Ogden stressed that
Partners In Progress has actively supported businesses that will improve the
quality of life for the citizens of Moore County. He remarked about the low
unemployment rate and that there are approximately 500 more people working this
past February then last February. Next Mr. Ogden informed the board that
Partners in Progress would like to have the town’s support once again for their
proposed 2007 – 2008 FY Budget.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None. 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 19, 2007
   B.   Minutes Special Meeting April 5, 2007
   C.   Budget Transfer #H
   D.   Budget Amendments #14, 15
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes.  
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   After a brief discussion the board approved the Amendment to the
Nuisance Ordinance 81.16, with the addition of language to include parades and
all similar activities, copy attached which is and does become part of these
minutes following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   B.   The board decided to change the date of the May 21, 2007 Regular
Meeting to Tuesday May 22, 2007, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board decided to set the date for FY 2007 -2008 Budget Workshop for
Tuesday May 22, 2007 at 6:00 p.m.
   D.   The Board passed the Proclamation for Municipal Clerks Week April 29
through May 5, 2007, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   After review and discussion, the board decided to approve the
Floodplain Inter-local Agreement with Moore County with the deletion of item
number 10, copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.   
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Fields remarked he would like to observe a moment of silence for
the victims and families affected by the tragedy at Virginia Tech. Commissioner
Lapping spoke concerning the availability of firearms in this country. Mayor
Walton thanked the board and the staff for all the cooperation and unity in the
recent negotiations with Little River. Mayor Walton suggested that Town Manager
Carol Sparks write a letter of thanks to Governor Holshouser for all his hard
work and help during the process of meeting with Little River.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell spoke concerning his recent trip to China.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: None. 
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:03 p.m.  
______________________________      ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
MAY 22, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 22, 2007
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting for a budget
workshop, Tuesday, May 22, 2007 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor W. C. Walton, Mayor Pro-tem, Ronnie Fields,
Commissioners Sherwood Lapping, Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan and Tom Stewart.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Manager/Finance
Officer Linda Phillips, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The Board began discussion concerning the proposed FY 2007-2008 budget. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported to the board that Moore County has decreased the
Carthage Fire District tax rate from $0.065 to $0.0480. We just received this
information today. The Carthage Fire District Board approved the proposed Fire
Department budget for FY 2007-2008 with the current rate of $0.065 remaining
the same. There was much concern over this rate change and how it would affect
the Town’s proposed FY 2007-2008 budget with a deficit for the Fire Department
of $53,312.00. Fire Chief Tyner reported that he has spoken with other Fire
Chiefs in the County and they were unaware of the changes to the tax rates and
do not agree with the change. The County will be holding a public hearing on
the County’s budget on Thursday, May 24 at 6:00 pm. Town Manager Sparks
requested that each Board member that could attend the County’s public hearing
on Thursday to please do so.
The Town’s proposed FY 2007-2008 includes a tax reduction from $.42 to $.40,
increase in garbage rates from $8.00 per month to $10.00 per month, and $1.00
increase in sewer availability rate.
Town Manager Sparks reviewed revenue decreases and expenditure increases for
the Town. She also recommended that the water availability rate increase $1.00
a month, same as sewer rate increase.
Mayor Walton asked each Board member their opinion on the tax rate and other
rate increases. All board members agreed that the town does not need to lower
the tax rate to $.40 and to keep it $.42. They also agreed on raising the water
availability rate by $1.00, the same as sewer availability rate and include the
increase in garbage fees from $8.00 to $10.00.
Mayor Walton requested that the budget be redone, after the County meeting
concerning the district tax rate. The budget revisions will include the above
mentioned changes.
Mayor pro-tem Fields inquired of Chief McKenzie about the additional
investigator position that had been discussed at the budget retreat. Chief
McKenzie stated that the second phase of the Governor’s Highway Safety grant
had been approved and we have hired an additional police officer. Since this
funding has taken place, he has made a lateral move of Officer Dan Phillips to
Investigator of criminal offenses and Officer Brant Phillips will only have
narcotic investigations to handle. Chief McKenzie also mentioned selling two of
the oldest police department vehicles and using proceeds to purchase a used
vehicle for Officer Brant Phillips for undercover work. There was also some
discussion as to realigning the use of the other police department vehicles to
better serve officers. No definite decisions were made concerning the
realignment.
Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 6:50 p.m.
__________________________________      _____________________________
Linda Phillips, Deputy Clerk         W. C. Walton, Mayor
MAY 22, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
MAY 22, 2007
The Carthage Board of Commissioners met in regular session on Tuesday May 22,
2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Board members present were Mayor W. C. Walton, Mayor Pro-tem Ronnie Fields,
Commissioners Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart and Sherwood Lapping.
Carthage Town employees present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town
Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief
Brian Tyner and Public Works Director Rocky Davis.
Others present were John Chappell from the Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at at 7:05 p.m. Mayor Walton wanted
to let all the employees and each one involved with the Buggy Festival to know
how much he appreciates everything they did to make it a successful event.
II.   INVOCATION
– Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
– Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance to
the flag.
IV.   PUBLIC APPERANCES
-There was no public appearances.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
– None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
– The board unanimously approved the items listed below, following a motion
made by Commission Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Fields.
   A.   Minutes Special Meeting April 16, 2007
   B.   Minutes Regular Meeting April 16, 2007
   C.   Budget Transfers I
   D.   Budget Amendments #16, #17, #18
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT
– A copy is attached which is and does become part of these minutes.
Town Manager Sparks commented on the Buggy Festival, stating what a great
committee is involved in putting this event on and she wanted to personally
thank each for a job well done. She also stated the Festival improves each
year.
Town Manager Sparks also reported that she had received an update from Bill
Lester of Hobbs, Upchurch and Associates on the on going projects within the
town, which include the Little River sewer pump stations, 12” water line on
Union Church Road, elevated water tank for water plant and the 12” water
extension on Hwy. 22 to Little River Farm.
She also reported that the realtor concerned over the 50 ft. setbacks on Legion
Hut Road is now satisfied with these requirements.
The Board instructed the Manager that if we have not heard from the property
owners of the burned house on McNeill Street by Monday, to turn information
over to Town Attorney, Doug Gill.
Town Manager Sparks reminded each one of Lions Club Strides Walk for Diabetes
on June 16.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
– A motion to add A. June Meeting date change to the agenda was unanimously
passed following a motion by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Stewart.
   A.   June Meeting Date Change – A motion by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Stewart was unanimously passed to change the regularly
scheduled meeting in June from 18th to June 25th.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Contract for Fire Protection Services – Commissioner Stewart and
Commissioner Lapping are to review the proposed contract with Moore County and
bring back recommendations to the board at the June meeting.
   B.   Amendment to Water and Sewer Connection Policy – After much discussion
as to changes to the policy, this was tabled until our June meeting.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
-Town Manager Sparks commented on the Planning Board meeting of May 3, 2007.
The Planning Board is to observe violations in town and report back to Town
Manager so they may be addressed by Code Enforcement Officer John Gibbons.
Three members have been requested to address the current situation with
Granny’s Mercantile and report back.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
– None
XII.   COMMENTS FROM PUBLIC
– John Chappell from the Pilot wanted each one to know what a great festival
the Buggy Festival was this year and what a great job was done in the cleanup
process.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
– The Board went into closed session to at 7:38 p.m. to discuss real estate
issues at Little River Farms. Town Manager Sparks reported to the board that
there may be some changes in ownership of properties at Little River and could
effect our Rural Center Grant that Little River is obligated to pay the
matching funds. No action was taken.
XIV. ADJOURNMENT
– The Board came out of closed session and adjourned the meeting at 7:59 p.m.
______________________________________      ______________________
Linda Phillips, Finance Officer/Deputy Clerk      W. C. Walton, Mayor
JUNE 13, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
WEDNESDAY JUNE 13, 2007
4:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Wednesday June
13, 2007 at 4:00 p.m. at the Carthage Municipal Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Robert
Sullivan was absent.
   Also present were Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips,
Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a Budget Workshop for the fiscal year
2007 – 2008.
   Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Walton gave a brief update on Little River, informing the board that
he has been in contact with one of the new partners Clark East. Mayor Walton
remarked that Mr. East indicated that because they feel the current market will
not support pod development such as condos, and townhouses, they are going to
concentrate on single-family home development. Furthermore, Mr. East informed
Mayor Walton, they are ready to begin on the shopping center. Mayor Walton
stated that he and Mr. East have discussed the water line. Mr. East indicated
that they would like a formal request from the town for the balance of the
total matching grant. The balance they owe the town is $200,000.00. Mayor
Walton remarked they might put some signs for the shopping center so that
people will see what is coming.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields spoke concerning the sewer lift station, reminding the
board that Little River is obligated to do the upgrades to improve the lift
station, to relieve the demands on our Public Works crew of pumping the station
every day. Mayor Walton advised that the Little River partners are meeting with
Governor Holshouser tomorrow and that Mr. East has assured him that the sewer
will be taken care of.
   The board then began discussion concerning the FY 2007 – 2008 proposed
budget. Commissioner Stewart asked about the revenue analysis. Assistant Town
Manager Linda Phillips replied that the revenue analysis is based on a .40 tax
rate and the Fire Service District tax is .065.
   It was noted that the property tax is only about 1/3 of the revenue for the
total budget for the town. There was some discussion
   Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips brought attention to information
received yesterday from United Water concerning cost increases to the contract
to run the water plant. The proposed increases were approximately $61,274.76.
There was discussion concerning the purchase of new filters and that they may
possibly lower the actual costs some. There was discussion concerning the
increase in the flushing of the filters due to the iron in the surface water.
Presently they are flushing every day. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
remarked that some of the cost has increased due to increased production of
water because of the new subdivisions being built. Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis indicated it could take 8 to 12 weeks before we receive the new
filters. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields asked about the barley in the reservoir. Rocky
remarked they have been putting barley in the reservoir.
   Mayor Walton reminded the board this increase is not included in the
proposed budget. Next the board reviewed proposed increases to the water and
sewer rates, copy attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
Discussion followed concerning the proposed rate of .003 for water and .0045
for sewer. It was decided this would generate enough revenue, along with the
increase in customers due to the new construction that the budget could be
balanced. The board decided to raise the water rate from .0025 to .003, and the
sewer rate from .0040 to .0045, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields
and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Next, there was a brief discussion concerning the proposed tax rate for FY
2007 – 2008, with Mayor Walton reminding the board that at the last meeting
they had decided to raise the garbage rate by $2.00 and the water and sewer
availability rate each $1.00.
The board decided to set the FY 2007 – 2008 tax rate at .40 per $100.00 of
valuation, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 5:10 p.m.
___________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
JUNE 25, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 25, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday June 25, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Robert
Sullivan was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer/Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Also in attendance were Ron Thomas, and John Chappell, from the Pilot
Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:  
Commissioner Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Walton opened the Public Hearing on the proposed FY 2007 – 2008
Budget at 7:02 p.m, remarking that this will be the 16th year that the town has
not raised the tax rate. Town Manager Carol Sparks gave an over view of the
proposed budget. The total budget is $2,757,090.00, an increase of 13.59% over
the 2006 – 2007 budget. The tax rate will be reduced from $.42 to $.40. The
Fire District rate will remain at $.065. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the
board there will be no fund balance appropriation. Garbage collection rates
will be increased from $8.00 a month to $10.00 a month. The water and sewer
availability rate will go from $11.00 per month to $12.00 a month for
each. Additionally, the water rate for up to 5000 gallons will be increased
from .0025 to .0030 and the sewer rate for up to 5000 gallons will be increased
from .0040 to .0045. Mayor Walton closed the Public Hearing at 7:06 p.m. The
board adopted the FY 2007 – 2008 Budget and Budget Ordinance, as presented,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.   
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
      A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting May 22, 2007
      B.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 22, 2007
      C.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 13, 2007
      D.    Budget Transfer J
      E.    Budget Amendments #19 & #20
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that she and Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator Melissa
Adams will be meeting next week with Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Code
Enforcement Officer/Sgt. John Gibbons. Town Manager Carol Sparks explained that
now that the Police Department is fully staffed, Sgt. Gibbons will be able to
spend approximately 24 hours a week on code enforcement. Mayor Walton thanked
Carol and Chris for their efforts concerning code enforcement.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The adoption of the FY 2007 – 2008 Budget and Budget Ordinance had
previously been handled.   
   B.   Commissioner Lapping spoke concerning the Moore County Summit’s
Cooperative Purchasing Agreement commenting that there will be an online
listserv set up between the county and the towns. When one of them needs to buy
items, they can put it on the listserv to see if any others need to purchase
the same item. Hopefully this should result in a significant savings.
Furthermore, Commissioner Lapping reported this is a voluntary agreement, we
are not obligated if a better price an be obtained. The board approved the
Cooperative Purchasing Agreement, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board adopted the Habitat for Humanity CDBG Housing Development
Project Budget Ordinance, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board adopted the Habitat for Humanity CDBG Resolution for
Requisition and Check Signatures, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor
Walton commented on several new subdivisions being built in the town, remarking
that the subdivisions are much needed assets to the town and that they are
available for a variety of economic levels.
   E.   The town received two bids for the construction of a new water tank.
One from Phoenix Fabricators from Avon, IN and one from Caldwell Tanks from
Louisville, KY. After a brief discussion the board awarded the bid for a new
water tank to Phoenix Fabricators in the amount of $683,600.00, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Planning Board Meeting June 6, 2007, which is and does become part of these
minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Lapping reported on the Carthage July 4th Parade, remarking that
the Carthage Rotary and the Carthage Merchants Association are having all kinds
of activities during the day. There will be music, food, and children’s
activities at Nancy Kiser Park. Commissioner Lapping invited the board to ride
on a float, and remarked he felt the town should sponsor a float. Finance
Officer Linda Phillips reported there was not any money budgeted for a float.
Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the Buggy Festival is sponsoring a
float. Commissioner Stewart spoke concerning Roland Gilliam asking that the
town write a letter to Ft. Bragg on behalf of a handicapped boy who would like
to ride in a helicopter. The board approved Town Manager Carol Sparks writing a
letter on behalf of the handicapped boy to Ft. Bragg, and to state clearly in
the letter, the town accepts no responsibility or liability should something
happen, following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields remarked that
Roland Gilliam will give Carol the name of the Commander the letter should be
addressed to. Commissioner Stewart reported he had been to see Commissioner
Sullivan. He reported he is doing well and hopes to come home next week. Mayor
Walton reported on a meeting he and Finance Officer/Assistant Town Manager
Linda Phillips attended recently concerning the BRAC base realignment. Mayor
Walton stated he felt the town was on the right track with our residential
development that is happening now, as the base realignment will have an affect
on the growth of the town.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Reporter John Chappell commented on Mayor Walton’s son becoming the new Town
Manager of Charlotte. Ron Thomas introduced himself to the board, remarking he
is retired Navy, recently located here, and that he would like to become
involved with the town. Mayor Walton welcomed him and thanked him for coming to
the meeting.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
The board went into a closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping. The board moved into closed session at 7:52 p.m. The board moved back
into regular session at 8:45 p.m. Mayor Walton reported there was no action to
be taken.   
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m.   
_____________________________      ________________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   W. C. Walton, Mayor
JULY 16, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 16, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday July 16, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum. Commissioner Sullivan
was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Assistant
Town Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner.
   Concerned citizens present were Ethlyn Taylor, Mr. & Mrs. Robert Phillips,
Mr. & Mrs. James Conway, Jeff Leehneer, Artie Barber, Jeff and Stephen Kirby.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
 Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None. 
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields, with a correction to
the minutes of June 25, 2007, item XI. Any Other Business from Commissioners;
9th line, Mayor Pro-Tem Fields should be corrected to read Commissioner Tom
Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 25, 2007
      B.   Budget Transfers K, L, M
      C.   Budget Amendments #21, #22
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   Matt and Stephen Kirby of Kirby Real Estate Group, LLC gave a
presentation of their preliminary subdivision plat. The proposed subdivision is
on approximately 28 acres located off of Rockingham Street. The property is
zoned R-20 (Residential 20,000 sq. ft. lots). The preliminary plat has been
submitted to the Planning Board at their July meeting, and was approved. There
was some discussion from members in the audience. Ms. Ethlyn Taylor spoke
concerning her concerns for the traffic and the impact on the schools.
Furthermore Ms. Taylor was concerned about the proposed location of the
entrance to the subdivision and whether or not there would be a stop light at
the elementary school. There was much discussion. There was much discussion
concerning the lot sizes as well as the open space. Mayor Walton indicated he
felt the board would like to see the lot sizes increased by incorporating the
open space into the lots. There was some discussion concerning this. It was
noted that Moore County was interested in purchasing the property to build a
new jail and office complex. Stephen Kirby reported that they have a signed
contract to purchase, and should close in a few weeks. Mayor Walton remarked
that the board will work with them in coming up with a plan.
      B.   The board approved the reappointment of ETJ Planning Board Members
Bob Hunt and Max Muse following a motion made by Commissioner Riley and
seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C.   Jeff Leehneer presented his plan for a new commercial building on
three acres located behind InfoTec, adjacent to Carthage Farm Supply. The
building will be split face block 12’ high, and the remainder 1’ portion will
be metal. After a brief discussion the board approved the proposed commercial
building following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   The board approved the Resolution Authorizing The Town Manager Of
Carthage To Execute A Cooperative Purchasing Agreement, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      B.   After a brief discussion, the board approved the following
proposed increases to the zoning fees; Certificate of Zoning Compliance for new
construction from $50.00 to $100.00, storage buildings or accessory buildings
from $25.00 to $30.00, signs from $25.00 to $75.00, and requests for re-zoning,
text amendments, variances, annexations, and conditional and special uses from
$150.00 to $250.00, following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C.   After some discussion the board decided to approve the Water/Sewer 
   Policy Amendment concerning Annexation, requiring that any property
receiving water and sewer service must be annexed into the Town of Carthage,
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. It was noted this will apply to new requests
for water/sewer service, not existing properties presently receiving service
that are outside the town limits.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Planning Board Meeting July 12, 2007, which is and does become part of these
minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Walton recognized the importance of the work done by the Planning
Board. In addition, Mayor Walton thanked Carol for the effort made in making
sure the debris was removed from the two burned houses in Carthage.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Mr. Conway, who resides in the Cabin Branch Subdivision, addressed the board
concerning the water problems at Cabin Branch. Mr. Conway remarked that since
November of last year the water has been yellow. Mr. Conway explained that
although Town Manager Carol Sparks and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
have been very helpful, he would like an answer to when the problem will be
fixed. Town Manager Carol Sparks explained that once the water line is looped
down Priest Hill Road and Hwy 15-501, as well as the construction of a new
water tank, this should help the problems they are experiencing. As far as a
time frame, Town Manager Carol Sparks reported she could not give one at this
time.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
   The board went into a closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried. The
board moved into closed session at 8:15 p.m. The board moved back into regular
session at 8:45 p.m. Mayor Walton reported there was no action to be taken. 
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m.  
______________________________      __________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
AUGUST 20, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 20, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday August 20, 2007 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, and Jean Riley. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief
Brian Tyner, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire Fighter David Alston,
Planning Board Chairman Billy Salmon, Planning Board Members Connie Burns,
Chris Lassiter, Max Muse, Vernon Kelly, Percy DeGraffenreid, and Bob Hunt.
   Also in attendance were Moore County Commissioner Larry Caddell, Moore
County Director of Public Works Dennis Brobst, Planning Director Andrea
Surratt, Rufus Ritter and Reporter from the Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
 Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: Mayor Walton gave the invocation. 
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: Commissioner Stewart led everyone in reciting the
pledge of allegiance.
   Mayor Walton remarked there was an addition to the agenda; a Resolution to
Regulate Benefit Car Washes. The board approved the addition to the Agenda,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields, and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Fire Chief Brian Tyner gave an introduction of the new part-time
Fire Department Personnel. Chief Tyner introduced David Alston, remarking that
he currently is employed as a firefighter with the Pinehurst Fire Department.
The other two new part-time Firefighters are Cy Kirk who is currently a
Lieutenant with the Pinehurst Fire Department, and Rachel Bradley, who is
employed at Central Carolina Hospital as a paramedic. They both were unable to
be here tonight, due to other work obligations.  
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Walton opened the Public Hearing at 7:04 p.m. The purpose of
the Public Hearing was a request from Moore County to rezone three parcels,
approximately 14.95 acres from (R-20) and (R-10) Residential to (CBD) Central
Business District, LRK # 990048, #2787, and #2791 from R-10 and R-20
(Residential) to CBD (Central Business District). Planning Board Chairman Billy
Salmon made a recommendation to the board that the request for the rezoning by
the County be approved. Rufus Ritter who resides on Bank Street asked if his
property was included in the rezoning.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks replied that the rezoning was only for three
parcels owned by John Grimm. After a very brief discussion Mayor Walton closed
the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m.
   The board approved the request from the County to rezone three parcels LRK #
990048, #3787, and # 2791 from R-10 & R-20 to CBD (Central Business District);
there will be a ten foot buffer around the office complex property and
adjoining property owners, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The Board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 16, 2007
      B.   Budget Transfer A
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: Copy attached which is and does become part of
these minutes. 
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.    Request from Moore County on rezoning had previously been
approved. 
      B.   The board approved the Resolution to regulate benefit car washes,
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. It was noted that Town Manager Carol Sparks
will send notification to the Schools, and Civic Clubs concerning the new
regulation.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   David McKew was unable to be present to give an update on the water
plant.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   None. 
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Lapping remarked that the town should look into a cooperative
agreement with other municipalities and the County to share water in
emergencies. Commissioner Lapping stated we should establish a group to come up
with a plan to interconnect with other towns. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated
that the County is already studying this issue. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields remarked
about Rick’s Auto Sales and Don’s Used Cars, they are parking the cars too
close to the road and they need to move them back. Commissioner Lapping brought
attention to the bushes around town, there were several that needed to be
trimmed back. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that Code Enforcement Officer
John Gibbons will have a written report and will present it to the Planning
Board in September. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields inquired about the fines for code
enforcement penalties. Police Chief Chris McKenzie remarked that until they
actually have to take someone to court for an infraction, he won’t be able to
tell if the penalties are strong enough. Police Chief McKenzie reported that
Officer Gibbons sends a letter, along with pictures and a copy of the penalty
to the property owners and usually gets a very good response. Commissioner
Stewart remarked he has seen a lot of street lights burning during the day.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell spoke concerning a recent incident in which Police Detective
Brant Phillips had been involved in solving and what a terrific job the Police
Department does.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
   None.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 7:41 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_____ ____________________      ___________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   W. C. Walton, Mayor  
AUGUST 20, 2007
   TOWN OF CARTHAGE
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
   SPECIAL MEETING
   AUGUST 20, 2007
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Carthage Planning Board held a
joint Special Meeting on Monday August 20, 2007 at 6:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Members of the Planning Board present were Chairman Billy Salmon, Members
Max Muse, Connie Burns, Chris Lassiter, Percy DeGraffenreid, Vernon Kelly, and
Bob Hunt. A quorum. Mark Frye was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Administrative Assistant/
Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara.
   Also in attendance were Moore County Commissioner Larry Caddell, Moore
County Public Works Director Dennis Brobst, Moore County Planning Director
Andrea Surratt, Neal Smith of Neal Smith Engineering, Becky Csiszar a Realtor
with Caldwell Banker, Tom Daniel, and Reporter from the Pilot John Chappell.
   I.   Mayor Walton opened discussion concerning the request from Moore County
to rezone approximately 14.95 acres. Moore County is requesting that three
parcels which are zoned R-10 and R-20 (Residential) LRK #990048, #2787, and
#2791 be rezoned to CBD (Central Business District). The property is located
between McNeill Street, Dowd Street, and Sunset Drive. The purpose of the
rezoning is to allow the County to construct new centralized offices and to
extend the jail. Planning Board Chairman Billy Salmon spoke in favor of the
requested rezoning. Town Manager Carol Sparks gave an explanation on the
request for rezoning, remarking that she had only received a few calls from
citizens. Two of the concerns that these citizens had were the traffic, and
property tax rates. Moore County Public Works Director Dennis Brobst gave a
presentation showing a drawing of the proposed office buildings along with the
parking areas. Mr. Brobst remarked that the expansion of the jail will be done
at a later date. County Commissioner Larry Caddell spoke concerning the
proposed project, informing the board that the property will be a beautiful,
state of the art facility, and will be an asset to Carthage. Commissioner
Caddell remarked about the over crowding in the present court facility, and how
many offices are spread out. This facility will centralize the offices for
Moore County. Furthermore, Commissioner Caddell informed the board he will work
to improve relations between the County and the Town of Carthage. Mayor Walton
asked if there was anyone else that wished to speak. There was not.
   II.   Town Manager Carol Sparks opened discussion concerning the Cagle
property approximately 31.14 acres that LES Contractors is looking at
purchasing. The property is currently in the town’s ETJ and is zoned RA-40
(Residential/Agricultural 40,000 square foot lots). LES Contractors has an
option to purchase the property and wanted an opportunity to present the board
with a preliminary subdivision plat in order to receive feed back before
purchasing the property. If they purchased the property they would be
requesting annexation, and the property rezoned to R-20 (Residential 20,000
square foot lots). Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the main driveway
into the proposed subdivision would be off of McNeill Street, with a secondary
exit into Savannah’s Garden Subdivision. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the
board that they would be required to connect their water line to Savannah’s
Garden, down Cagle Lane to the line on Pinehurst Avenue. Becky Csiszar gave a
presentation outlining the preliminary subdivision plat. Concerned Citizen Tom
Daniel who resides at 1096 S. McNeill Street spoke concerning the notice of a
public meeting. Mr. Daniel was concerned because not all the property owners
had been notified about the meeting, remarking that they should have the
opportunity for equal representation concerning this matter. Town Manager Carol
Sparks explained this was just a discussion concerning the proposed
subdivision, no decisions could be made tonight, this was merely to discuss the
possibility of the proposed project, because in order to annex the property and
rezone it Public Hearings would have to be advertised and held, and all
adjoining property owners have to be notified. Mr. Daniel remarked he
understood. Becky Csiszar stated that they would welcome any discussions with
property owners concerning the proposed project. Mayor Walton reiterated that
this was simply an opportunity to alert the Planning Board and the Board of
Commissioners of a possible future project.
Mayor Walton asked if there was anyone else who wished to speak concerning this
issue. There was not. Mayor Walton adjourned the Special Meeting at 6:30 p.m.
_____________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 17, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 17, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday September 17, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, and Robert Sullivan. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative
Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police
Captain Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Director of Public Works Rocky
Davis, Planning Board Member Connie Burns and her husband Victor Burns, and
from Hydro Management David McKew..
   Concerned citizens present were Tom Daniel, John Chappell, James Conway,
Gwen Leckemby, Real Estate Agent Becky Csiszar, and Engineer Neal Smith.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Lapping gave the invocation. 
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: Commissioner Riley led everyone in reciting the
pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE: None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields stated that he felt that because he was an
adjoining property owner and he felt this may affect his property value, he had
a conflict of interest and would like to be excused from voting on this issue.
The board excused Mayor Pro-Tem Fields from voting on the rezoning, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Walton opened the Public Hearing at 7:02 p.m. The purpose for the
Public Hearing was to hear discussion concerning the request from LES
Contractors to rezone approximately 31.14 acres, LRK #989 from RA-40
(Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq. ft. lots) to R-20 (Residential 20,000 sq.
ft. lots). Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke briefly concerning the request for
rezoning, remarking that the Planning Board voted at their last meeting to
recommend to the Board of Commissioners that the property not be rezoned. Becky
Csiszar addressed the board informing them that LES Contractors would like to
build a subdivision with larger lots and larger homes, much like Berryfield on
the proposed property. Ms. Csiszar remarked that they are open to input from
the community and the neighbors. Ms. Csiszar handed out a map which detailed
the zoning classifications of the proposed property and the area surrounding
it. Ms. Csiszar remarked that they would like to have the property annexed by
the town. Mr. Tom Daniel spoke concerning the rezoning request, indicating that
he had three concerns he would like to address; the first was the proposed 24/
27 bypass. Mr. Daniel remarked that the proposed bypass could pass through or
very closely to the proposed property. Next, Mr. Daniel remarked that the
owners of the property are aware that the surrounding property owners are
against the development of the property. Lastly, Mr. Daniel spoke on a personal
level, stating that he looked long and hard before he purchased his property
over ten years ago. Mr. Daniel went on to say that he respects land use, and
does not want to live in an area that is over developed, and that is why he
chose to live in Carthage. Mr. Victor Burns addressed the board, indicating
that he agreed with everything Mr. Daniel had spoken about. Mr. Burns stated he
felt the property should remain zoned RA-40, remarking that if it was to be
developed, he would like to see it done in a more respectful manner. Mr. John
Chappell remarked he was speaking on a personal level, as adjoining property
owner, and not as a reporter. Mr. Chappell indicated his concern was that once
the property is rezoned, then anything that is permitted within that zoning is
permitted. Mr. Chappell went on to say he was not in favor of little lots with
little houses, that he likes his neighbors, and would have to side with them on
this issue. Mr. Chappell urged the board to look towards the future of
Carthage, twenty years from now and not from year to year with one development
to another. Much discussion ensued, with Ms. Csiszar speaking about the
proposed infrastructure. The homes would be in the $250,000 to $275,000 price
range. Furthermore, Ms. Csiszar stated they would not cut all the trees down.
Mr. Daniel remarked that Ms. Csiszar had indicated that adjoining property
owners had been contacted concerning this issue, and they had not, the
adjoining property owners had come to her. Much discussion followed. Ms.
Csiszar remarked that they would be good neighbors, and the proposed
subdivision would be an asset to Carthage. Many of the same citizens spoke
again, repeating what had already been stated previously. Mayor Walton asked
Town Manager to reiterate the recommendation from the Planning Board. Town
Manager Carol Sparks stated that the recommendation from the Planning Board was
to leave it zoned RA-40 and to deny the request for rezoning.
   Mayor Walton closed the Public Hearing at 7:35 p.m.
   Commissioner Lapping made a motion to table the request for rezoning from
LES Contractors. The motion died due to a lack of a second.
   The board voted to deny the request for rezoning LRK# 989 from RA-40 to R-
20, to leave it zoned RA-40, following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart
and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. It was noted for
the record that Mayor Pro-Tem Fields had been excused from voting on this
issue.
   The board added item #D Surplus Equipment to the agenda, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes.
Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting August 20, 2007
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 20, 2007
      C.   Budget Amendments #1, #2
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   A decision to deny the request from LES Contractors on rezoning
property LRK #989 from RA-40 to R-20 had already been decided previously in the
meeting.
      B.   Due to the NCLM Annual Conference the board decided to change the
October regular meeting date from Monday October 15 to Monday October 22, 2007
at 7:00 p.m. following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields, and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping, the board decided to appoint Commissioner Stewart as the
voting Delegate and Commissioner Sullivan as the alternate for NCLM Annual
Conference October 14 – 16, 2007.
      D.    The board adopted the Resolution Declaring Certain Property
Surplus, copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   David McKew from Hydro Management gave a report on the water plant,
updating the board on the new cleaning process that has been implemented for
the filters. Next there was discussion concerning some of the water issues in
Cabin Branch Subdivision. David McKew remarked that they are going back to
doing some light flushing of the fire hydrants; as soon as the drought improves
they will return to doing continuous flushing. Mayor Walton asked about the
percentage of water used to backwash the filters. David McKew replied it is
between 10% - 12%, due to the type of water plant it is. Mr. Conway remarked
that the water in Cabin Branch is brownish, smells bad and tastes bad. David
McKew remarked that the flushing should help, and with the schools being back
in session, this should help as well. However, with the drought conditions,
they have not been able to do any flushing. Additionally, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis brought attention to Nicks Creek, remarking that previously
the water had been coming from the bottom of Nick’s Creek, but that the water
level has improved tremendously. Mr. Conway stated he feels they pay a high
price for water that is yellow and tastes bad. Gwen Leckemby reiterated the
comments from Mr. Conway, remarking she is concerned about the cost. Some
discussion followed. Commissioner Lapping stated that the law requires that the
town charge what it costs to produce the water. Town Manager Carol Sparks
remarked that the State testing requirements become more stringent every year.
Mr. Conway thanked everyone for listening.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Copy of the Planning Board Meeting Minutes September 6, 2007 are attached
and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields stated he had an item for closed session.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
   The board moved into a closed session following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board moved into closed session at 8:20 p.m. The board reconvened
their regular session at 9:15 p.m. Mayor Walton remarked there was no action
taken.   
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 9:15 p.m.  
__________________________ ___________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk       W. C. Walton, Mayor
OCTOBER 22, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 22, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday October 22, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping, and Tom Stewart. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Zoning Administrator Melissa Adams,
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Administrative
Assistant/Assistant Town Clerk Karen O’Hara.
   Also in attendance were Becky Csiszar from Coldwell Banker, Sal DiBianco
from Sandhills Teen Challenge, John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper, and Eric
& Debbie Barto who live in Savannah’s Garden Subdivision.
I.   CALL TO ORDER: Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Sal DiBianco of Sandhills Teen Challenge located at 444 Farm Life
School Road, was here to speak to the board concerning the possibility of the
facility obtaining water from the town. Mr. DiBianco is aware of the low water
pressure to Union Pines High School, New Century Middle School, Cabin Branch,
and Forest Ridge. Town Manager Carol Sparks has informed Mr. DiBianco about the
town policy that requires property to be annexed into the town limits in order
to receive water service. Town Manager Carol Sparks has informed the board the
Sandhills Teen Challenge property is too far from the contiguous town limits
for satellite annexation unless the town goes through the General Assembly
process. Mr. DiBianco informed the board that Moore County has advised him to
come and speak to the town concerning getting water, as that would be his only
option at this time. Mr. DiBianco informed the board he would be willing to pay
for all costs to extend the water. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
remarked that if the town were to provide water service to the Sandhills Teen
Life property the quality of water would not be good, and the water pressure
would be very low. It was the general consensus of the board that annexation
and extending the water was not an option at this time. Mr. DiBianco thanked
the board for the opportunity to address this issue.  
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: None. 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following item following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 17, 2007.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that she had received a press release from Governor
Easley’s Office asking that all Municipalities reduce water consumption by 50%
by Halloween. Much discussion followed. Town Manger Carol Sparks informed the
board she will send out a letter to the citizens concerning the Governor’s
request, along with tips to help reduce water usage. In addition, Town Manager
Carol Sparks will visit the restaurants, car washes and laundromat in an effort
to have them reduce their consumption.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields asked to be excused from voting on the following
items. The board voted to excuse Mayor Pro-Tem Fields from voting on the
following items following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
      A.   Petition Requesting Annexation from Larry Cagle – 31.14 acres
      B.   Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate Annexation Petition
      C.   Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing on Question of Annexation
Pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2, As Amended
   All of the items above were approved following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes.
   Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS: There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Copy of the Planning Board Meeting October 4, 2007 is attached, and does
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Lapping remarked there was an abundance of excellent ideas at
the recent North Carolina League of Municipalities Annual Conference held in
Fayetteville. Commissioner Lapping indicated he would like for the board to
hold a workshop to go over some of the ideas, and then possibly get together
with the town of Robbins.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Mr. Eric Barto introduced himself and his wife to the board. Mr. Barto
reported that he and his family had recently moved into a home in Savannah’s
Garden Subdivision. Since moving they have experienced problems with the water.
Mr. Barto indicated he has talked with the Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
on numerous occasions, as well as the water plant. Town Manager Carol Sparks
remarked that when the town was flushing hydrants on a regular basis, the water
problems improved, however, since we are in a drought, the town has been unable
to flush hydrants. There was some discussion concerning the developer of
Savannah’s Garden extending the water line to Pinehurst Avenue. This would help
alleviate some of the problems due to dead end lines. Mr. Barto thanked the
board for the opportunity to speak. Commissioner Lapping remarked that he was
always welcome at the town meetings. John Chappell spoke concerning the dark
park and the star party which was recently held in Robbins.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
   The board moved into a closed session at 7:45 p.m. following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. The board moved
back into open session at 8:25 p.m.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
___________________________         ___________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W.C. Walton, Mayor
NOVEMBER 19, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 19, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday November 19, 2007 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor W.C. Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Tom Stewart, Robert Sullivan, and Sherwood Lapping.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Police Administrative Assistant Crystal Krieger, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Planning Board Members Chris
Lassiter, and Max Muse.
   Concerned citizens present were Victor Burns, Ruby Newton, Charles Newton,
Ron Jackson, Scott Matthews, Roland Gilliam, Pam Hill, Sandra Stokes and John
Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INNOCATION:
   Commissioner Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
   Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.    Starla Hughes, CPA of Sharrard, McGee & Co., P.A. gave the
presentation of 2006 – 2007 FY Audit, copy attached, which is and does become
part of these minutes.
      B.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced the new Administrative
Assistant Crystal Krieger, announcing that Crystal has been working as an
unpaid intern for several months. The Board of Commissioners welcomed Crystal.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   Mayor Walton opened the Public Hearing on the question of contiguous
annexation for LES Contractors, Inc. at 7:13 p.m. Adjoining property owner
Victor Burns spoke concerning the proposed annexation, remarking that he would
like to see the property developed on a much smaller scale. Town Manager Carol
Sparks remarked that the request for rezoning the property from RA-40 to R-20
was turned down. Real Estate Agent Pam Hill spoke, telling the board she would
like the town to annex the property. Sandra Stokes, Vice President of LES
remarked that she would like the property to be annexed for future development
of the property. John Chappell spoke to the board, remarking that we did not
really know who LES is. Mr. Chappell stated he did not want to see another
crowded development in Carthage, the town needs to examine the zoning ordinance
and come up with a comprehensive plan for the future growth of Carthage. Mayor
Walton remarked that the issue at hand tonight was the request for annexation.
Mayor Pro-Tem Fields stated he felt the board needed to study the water and
sewer infrastructure issues before making a decision on annexation. Sandra
Stokes, informed the board that the proposed future development of the property
would be in one to two years. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields reiterated that the water
and sewer issues needed to be addressed before a decision is made. Mayor Walton
closed the Public Hearing at 7:23 p.m.
   The board approved the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town
of Carthage, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 22, 2007
      B.   Budget Amendments #3, #4, & #5
      C.   Budget Transfers #B, #C, & #D
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The board had previously accepted the Certificate of Sufficiency for
LES Contractors request for annexation.   
      B.   The Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of
Carthage, NC had previously been adopted.
      C.   Mrs. Ruby Newton and her son Charles Newton addressed the board
concerning a request to extend sewer to her residence. Mrs. Newton lives at
3596 Hwy 15-501, and her property was annexed into the town limits during the
1998-1999 mass annexations. Presently her septic system is failing and sewer is
not available to her house. Her son spoke concerning this issue, asking that
the board consider extending the sewer system to her home. There was much
discussion between the board and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
concerning the expense of extending the sewer line. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields
remarked that he felt the town needed to provide the sewer and that the cost
should be investigated. The board decided to enlist an engineer to study the
issue and costs of extending the sewer to Mrs. Newton’s house, following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes.
      Motion carried.
      D.   Ron Jackson addressed the board concerning his request for approval
of a preliminary subdivision plat for Savannah’s Ridge and Phase II of
Savannah’s Garden Subdivision. The Planning Board had tabled his request at
their November 1, 2007 meeting, so that the town could access the Hwy 22 sewer
pump station, and get cost estimates for upgrading the system. Ron Jackson
informed the board that he plans to run a water line from the subdivision to
Pinehurst Avenue. Mr. Jackson stated running the line will help with the water
problem that is being experienced in the Savannah’s Garden Subdivision,
however, he can not run the line with out approval on the Savannah’s Ridge
Subdivision. There was much discussion concerning this issue. Mr. Jackson
remarked that he can not move forward, until he got approval. The consensus of
the Board was that the subdivision should be reviewed again by the Planning
Board, and then a recommendation be made to the Board of Commissioners. The
board voted to have the preliminary subdivision plat reviewed by the Planning
Board for a recommendation, after an assessment of the sewer pump station has
been completed, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by
Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
      E.   The board adopted the Resolution to Declare the Sweeper Surplus,
following a motion made by Commissioner Riley and
      seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.  
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Copy of the Planning Board Meeting November 1, 2007, Planning Board Meeting
November 14, 2007 minutes are attached, which are and do become part of these
minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   None.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
None.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:15 following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Fields and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
__________________________         ________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      W. C. Walton, Mayor  
DECEMBER 17, 2007
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 17, 2007
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their Regular Meeting on Monday
December 17, 2007 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor W.C.Walton, Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners
Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Officers Travis Baker,
and Luke Yang, Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Clerk of Court Catherine Graham, John Chappell from the
Pilot, Mrs. Iola Walton, Mr. Jimmy Riley, and Ms. Elizabeth Williams.
   The board added an item to the agenda; New Business, item D, NC Rural Center
Draught Relief Grant Amendment.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Walton called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Walton gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
    OATHS OF OFFICE:
   Clerk of Court Catherine Graham gave the Oaths of Office to the recently re-
elected Mayor Walton and Commissioners Jean Riley, Ronnie Fields and Tom
Stewart.
   RECEPTION: The board recessed for a brief reception at 7:10 p.m.
   RESUME REGULAR MEETING:
   The board resumed the regular meeting at 7:23 p.m. 
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced two new Police Officers;
Travis Baker and Auxiliary Police Officer Luke Yang. The board welcomed Travis
and Luke.  
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following item following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 19, 2007
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: Copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes. 
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The board appointed Ronnie Fields Mayor Pro-Tem, following a motion
made by Commissioner Sullivan and seconded by Commissioner Tom Stewart. All
ayes. Motion carried. 
      B.   The board voted to reappoint Commissioners Jean Riley and Sherwood
Lapping as the authorized check signers, following a motion made by
Commissioner Sullivan and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes.
      Motion carried.  
      C.   Due to the Martin Luther King Holiday the board decided to change
the January 2008 Regular Meeting Date from Monday January 21, 2008 to Monday
January 28, 2008, following a motion made by Commissioner Sullivan and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion carried.
      D.   The board voted to amend the NC Rural Center Drought Relief Grant,
in order to use left over money to help with the cost of the water line
improvements for Union Church Road, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Fields and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried. 
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks opened discussion concerning Savannah’s
Garden Phase II & Savannah’s Ridge and the current situation with the capacity
of the sewer lift station on Hwy 22. A brief discussion followed. The board
will hold a Special Meeting on Monday January 28, 2008 at 6:00 p.m. to discuss
the upgrade of the sewer lift station.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   There were none.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Stewart brought attention to the recent water study done by
Moore County, noting that there was no mention of Carthage. Town Manager Carol
Sparks remarked that she has met with County Manager Cary McSwain, and they are
trying to prioritize County water needs. Commissioner Lapping opened discussion
concerning connecting a water line from Robbins to Carthage. It was his opinion
this needed to be investigated.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
   None. 
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Walton adjourned the meeting at 8:01 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Fields. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
___________________________       ______________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk    Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem
2008 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 23, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 23, 2008
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting, Wednesday, January
23, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. at the Municipal Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor Pro-tem, Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Sherwood
Lapping, Jean Riley, Robert Sullivan and Tom Stewart.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Manager/Finance
Officer Linda Phillips,
Mayor Pro-tem Fields called the meeting to order at 8:47 a.m.
There was discussion concerning the vacancy of the mayor’s position after the
death of Mayor W. C. Walton. The board asked Mayor Pro-tem Fields if he would
consider stepping up to the Mayor position and Commissioner Riley to the Mayor
Pro-tem position. They are to consider this and a formal announcement will be
made at the regularly scheduled board meeting on Monday, January 28, 2008.
Applications are to be made available to anyone interested in filling the
commissioner vacancy that this would create.
Commissioner Lapping stated he felt that the Town should in some way recognize
Mayor W. C. Walton for his long and dedicated service to the town. It was
suggested that the Town name the current municipal building after Mayor Walton
and a plaque be placed outside. A dedication service would be held sometime in
early summer. The name of the building would be The W. C. Walton Carthage
Municipal Building. It was agreed upon to allocate approximately $3000.00 for
this project.
Town Manager Sparks informed each one of the Chamber banquet on Thursday,
January 31st at the Carolina Hotel. The chamber plans to recognize Mayor Walton
during the banquet.
Commissioner Stewart moved to adjourn the meeting at 9:12 a.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Linda Phillips, Deputy Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-tem
JANUARY 28, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 28, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
January 28, 2008 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Tom Stewart, Jean
Riley, Sherwood Lapping and Robert Sullivan. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Town Finance Officer/Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips, Administrative
Assistant/Deputy Clerk Karen O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, and Police Captain Bart Davis.
   Also in attendance were Clerk of Court Catherine Graham, Al Graham, Mrs.
Iola Walton, Becky and Tom Prim, Planning Board Member Billy Salmon & his wife
Patsy, John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper, Eric Barto, John Upton, Debby
Stringer, Planning Consultant Giles Hopkins, Ron Jackson, Jimmy Riley, Renee
Fields; and several of Mayor Pro-tem Ronnie Fields’ family members.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Lapping called for a moment of silence in honor of the passing
of “Dr. Bill” Mayor Walton. Commissioner Lapping then gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   David McKew gave a brief update on the water plant. Mr. McKew
referred to the recent passing of the water plant superintendent Paul Russell.
Mr. McKew reported that the new filters have come in but have not been
installed yet, in order to get optimum use from them. Mr. McKew remarked they
will be installed before the warm weather arrives. Mr. McKew reported that the
water plant is treating approximately 250,000 gallons of water a day. Town
Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that the town has reduced water usage
by about 41%. Mr. McKew brought attention to the new elevated water tank,
remarking it will be ready for service very soon. Mr. McKew spoke about water
quality issues which have significantly improved since the summer.
      B.   Mr. Eric Barto who resides at 208 Robert Place in Savannah’s Garden
Subdivision began discussion concerning his water quality. Mr. Barto brought
attention to pictures he has taken of his water, which is green. Mr. Barto
remarked that some of his neighbors have complained of having yellow and brown
water, as well. Furthermore, Mr. Barto went on to describe a loud thumping
noise he and his family hear, mainly at night under the house. Mr. Barto
explained has had plumbers come and investigate the problem, but to no avail.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis spoke about flushing the lines. Rocky
reported there are two fire hydrants that do not work and need to be repaired
within the subdivision. Mr. McKew reported that he has tested Mr. Barto’s water
and nothing has showed up, everything is in compliance. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields
spoke about the water line within the development that needs to be connected to
Pinehurst Avenue, remarking that would solve a lot of the problems. Mayor Pro-
Tem Fields asked Mr. Barto to be patient with the town, that we are working to
try to solve the problems.
   Mr. John Upton who resides at 236 Savannah Garden Drive addressed the board
concerning his water issues. Mr. Upton informed the board his water is brown
and has caused his clothes to turn brown. Mr. Upton explained he is aware of
other places in town that have brown water. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields remarked we
have not received any other complaints concerning brown water. Mr. McKew spoke
concerning the growth within the development, interconnecting water lines and
how this will help to solve some of these water issues.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   There was none.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENGA:
   The board approved the following items, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting December 17, 2007
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting January 23, 2008
       C.   Budget Transfers # E, F
      D.   Budget Amendments # 6, 7
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. 
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   Commissioner Lapping nominated Mayor Pro-Tem Fields as Mayor, with
Commissioner Stewart making a motion to close the nominations, Commissioner
Lapping seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
      B.   Commissioner Lapping nominated Commissioner Jean Riley as Mayor Pro-
Tem, Commissioner Sullivan seconded; Commissioner Stewart made a motion that
the nominations be closed, Commissioner Lapping seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      C.   The board approved holding the vacant Commissioner opening on the
town board until applications can be reviewed, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that applications for the Board of
Commissioner vacancy are available at the Municipal Building. The deadline is
February 8, 20008. A decision will be announced at the February 18, 2008
Regular Meeting.
      D.   Clerk of Court Catherine Graham swore in Ronnie Fields as Mayor and
Jean Riley as Mayor Pro-Tem. Mayor Fields presented Mrs. Walton with flowers in
memory of Mayor Bill Walton, remarking that the board is going to name the
Municipal Building after Mayor Walton and have a ceremony sometime in the near
future. Mrs. Walton spoke briefly and thanked the board.
      E.   Town Attorney Doug Gill has advised Town Manager Carol Sparks to
turn down the offer made by American Tower concerning the Lease Amendment. It
was decided to wait to take any action until it was closer to the end of the
lease.
      F.   After a brief discussion the board voted to award the contract for
Phase I Utility Water & Sewer Improvements for Habitat for Humanity to Temple
Grading & Construction of Bunnlevel, NC, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      G.   The board decided to set the date for the FY 2008 – 2009 Budget
Retreat for Thursday February 21, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
      H.   The board adopted the NC Governor’s Highway Safety Program
   Resolution, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
      I.   After much discussion it was decided to wait until the February
Budget Retreat to decide on the Fire Department truck purchase; the Fire
Department is to have a report on all Fire Trucks, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      J.   The board adopted the CDBG Habitat for Humanity Recipient’s Plan
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks brought attention to the Intergovernmental
Agreement concerning the Moore County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported that previously there had been a statement that
said the town would be responsible if a County Inspector was injured during an
inspection for the town. That provision has been removed from the agreement.
The board voted to Adopt Resolution for Intergovernmental Agreement for the
Moore County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the Planning Board Minutes January 3, 2008 is attached, which is
and does become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Lapping remarked that any citizen wishing to speak to the board
should feel welcome to come to the meetings. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley wished Town
Manager Carol Sparks a “Happy Birthday”.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Debby Stringer who resides at 236 Robert Place in Savannah’s Garden
addressed the board concerning the fire hydrants that were not working.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis reported they were not located near any
completed houses and would be repaired. Furthermore, Ms. Stringer asked if she
could review a copy of the water and sewer plans for the subdivision. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported there is a copy located at the Municipal
Building.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3):
   The board went into a closed session to discuss legal matters at 8:24 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.   
   Mayor Fields reconvened the Regular Meeting at 9:00 p.m. There was no action
taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m.   
__________________________         _________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, Town Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor
JANUARY 28, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 28, 2008
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday January
28, 2008 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Jean Riley, Sherwood
Lapping, Robert Sullivan, and Tom Stewart. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Assistant
Town Manager Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Clerk Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and Planning Consultant Giles
Hopkins.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the upgrade to the sewer
lift station on Hwy 22.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields opened the meeting at 6:00 p.m.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks opened discussion concerning the need for the pump
station to be upgraded before developments can be approved for properties
feeding into the lift station. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that three
proposals had been obtained for the proposed upgrade to the lift station;
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates gave a proposal in the amount of $403,000.00;
Alley, Williams, Carmen & King gave a proposal in the amount of $410,250.00;
and McGill Associates gave a proposal in the amount of $784,500.00. Town
Manager Carol Sparks brought attention to the fact that this expenditure has
not been budgeted. There was much discussion concerning the various bids and
the work pertaining to the bids. The bids received from Hobbs, Upchurch &
Associates, as well as, Alley, Williams, Carmen & King involved the sewer being
run directly into the sewer line on Hwy 15-501 instead of being run to the
lagoon first. Commissioner Stewart remarked that some years ago there was a
problem with the State allowing the town to use the sewer lagoon; this created
a large problem with odor. The State decided the town could use the lagoon and
the odor problem disappeared. Commissioner Stewart wanted to get clarification
from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates that if the sewer is not run to the lagoon
first, that there would not a problem with the odor. Much discussion followed.
Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that a check valve was installed, and this
had alleviated the odor problem.
   Director of Public Works Rocky Davis reported that the lift station at Cox’s
Service Station will have to be upgraded along with the lift station on Hwy
#22. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields replied that the upgrade to Cox’s was already in the
works. It was the consensus of the board to get clarification from Hobbs,
Upchurch, & Associates concerning the issue of the lagoon, as well as, whether
the upgrades to Cox’s had to be done first or could be done simultaneously with
the upgrade to the lift station on Hwy #22 before any decision could be made.
Furthermore, there was much discussion concerning the funding of the upgrades.
There was discussion concerning future impact fees for Savannah’s Garden Phase
II Subdivision, as well, as the proposed LES subdivision, and the proposed
subdivision on the Purvis property. The future impact fees on those
developments would create revenue which would almost pay for the entire upgrade
to the sewer lift station. There was further discussion concerning this matter.
Town Manager Carol Sparks brought attention to the town policy concerning
impact fees; they must be paid prior to a certificate of zoning compliance
being issued. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields referred to Planning Consultant Giles
Hopkins, who is working as a consultant for Ron Jackson and asked that he pass
along this information to Ron Jackson. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
informed the board that the sewer lift station can handle the remaining future
houses planned for Phase I and Phase IA of Savannah’s Garden.
   Commissioner Lapping referred to Eric Barto, a homeowner n Savannah’s Garden
who has asked to speak to the board concerning a problem with his water. The
board accepted the bid from Hobbs, Upchurch, & Associates in the amount of
$403,000.00; contingent upon funding for the project becoming available,
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks asked the board about placing preliminary plats
for future subdivisions on the Planning Board and Town Board Agendas for
approval. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields instructed Town Manager Carol Sparks to place
any preliminary subdivision plats on the agendas, remarking that approval can
be contingent upon the upgrade of the sewer lift station being completed.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields asked Director of Public Works Rocky Davis to look into
a recent sewer problem experienced by Stephanie Stone on Brooklyn Street.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis reported that he is aware of the problem.
Recently a check valve was installed to keep the sewer from backing up into Ms.
Stone’s house. Mayor Pro-Tem Fields instructed Rocky to investigate a possible
way to fix the problem and to get a cost estimate to discuss at the next
regular board meeting.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Fields adjourned the meeting at 6:43 p.m.
__________________________         ____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, Town Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem
FEBRUARY 12, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
FEBRUARY 12, 2008
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting, Tuesday, February
12, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. at the Municipal Building in Carthage.
Board members present: Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Sherwood Lapping, Robert Sullivan and Tom Stewart.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Manager/Finance
Officer Linda Phillips,
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 8:31 a.m.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss applications to fill the vacancy that
was created by new appointments in the Mayor and Mayor pro-tem positions.
There were five applications to review. After review of each application,
Commissioner Lapping moved to recommend Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. to fill the
vacancy. The recommendation was seconded by Commissioner Stewart and passed
unanimously. The official appointment will take place at the regular board
meeting on Monday February 18, 2008. Mayor Fields asked Town Manager Sparks to
please notify the other candidates of the board’s decision.
Commissioner Riley made a motion for the Board to go into closed session
(purpose to discuss personnel matter G.S.143-318.11(a)(1)(6). Commissioner
Lapping seconded the motion which passed unanimously.
Commissioner Lapping made a motion to reconvene to regular meeting at 9:25 a.m.
which was seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. No action was taken in closed
session.
There was some general discussion of the progress of the new water tank and on
the Planning and Zoning revisions that Steve Davenport is working on for the
Town.
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 9:35 a.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Linda Phillips, Deputy Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor
FEBRUARY 16, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 16, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday February 16, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Sgt. Rick Bickel,
and Police Officer Tim Dalton.
   Also in attendance were many members of Sgt. Bickels’ family, Moore County
Planner Debra Ensminger, Cynthia Secura, Dawn Perry, and Reporter John
Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Fields gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced Sgt. Rick Bickel, remarking
that he has promoted him to Police Lieutenant. Everyone congratulated Lt.
Bickel.  
      B.   Chief McKenzie reported that the “Police Officer of the Year” award
will be deferred until the next meeting.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing to hear a request for
rezoning from Cynthia Secura at 7:05 p.m. The property is located at 216 Union
Church Rd. Ms Secura has asked that the property be rezoned from R-20
“Residential 20,000 sq. ft.” to CU-TBD “Conditional Use Thoroughfare Business
District”. Ms. Secura addressed the board and spoke concerning her desire to
open a Pediatric Occupational Therapy business at the proposed location. Ms.
Secura indicated there would be two examining rooms. Town Manager Carol Sparks
brought attention to the conditions recommended by the Planning Board
concerning the parking requirements, with the maximum required parking spaces
being eight spaces, and the maximum height for a freestanding sign at (8) eight
feet. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported the Planning Board had recommended the
rezoning, with the proposed conditions. Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing
at 7:09 p.m.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: The board approved the following items following a
motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting November 17, 2008
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 17, 2008
      C.   Budget Amendment #7, #8, #9, #10
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: Copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The board voted to adopt the Interlocal Agreement with Moore County
for Building Inspections, following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
      B.   The board voted to adopt the Interlocal Agreement with Moore County
for Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C.   The board voted to rezone 216 Union Church Rd. LRK # 332 from R-20
“Residential 20,000 sq. ft. Lots” to CU-TBD “Conditional Use Thoroughfare
Business District, with the following conditions placed on the property; the
property may only be used for professional/medical or related offices, a
freestanding sign may not be over (8) eight feet high, and no more than eight
parking spaces will be required, following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.   
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   The board approved the proposed Cell Tower Lease with American Tower
as presented, following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.   
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
      A.   The Planning Board met on February 5, 2009, a copy of the minutes
are attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.   
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Fields remarked that he has been asked about changing the regular
meetings to 6:00 p.m. After a brief discussion, Commissioner Barber stated he
would report back to Mayor Fields as to whether or not he would be able to
attend monthly meetings at 6:00 p.m. Commissioner Dowdy reported to Town
Manager Carol Sparks he has a number of letters from concerned citizens
regarding the proposed 24/27 Bypass that he will bring to the office.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   None.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   None.  
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 7:32 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_____________________            ______________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor 
FEBRUARY 18, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 18, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday February 18, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping and Tom Stewart. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Deputy Town
Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Administrative Assistant/
Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Police Corporal Rick Bickel, Police
Detective Dan Phillips, Police Officer Tracy Carter, Planning Board Chairman
Billy Salmon, and Planning Board Member Percy DeGraffenreid.
   Other concerned citizens present were Clerk of Court Catherine Graham, Al
Graham, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper, Patsy
Salmon, Claudette Dowdy, and various family members and friends of the Police
Officers being honored and of Milton T. Dowdy.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
APPOINTMENT OF NEW COMMISSIONER: Mayor Fields thanked all who had applied for
the vacant commissioner’s position. The board appointed Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. as
the new Commissioner to fill the recent vacancy on the board, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
SWEARING IN CEREMONY:
   Clerk of Court Catherine Graham gave the oath of office to newly appointed
Commissioner Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. Commissioner Dowdy spoke briefly remarking
that he was thankful for this opportunity to serve his community.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Police Captain Bart Davis introduced
the Officers who had recently been promoted; Police Corporal Rick Bickel was
promoted to Police Sergeant in December 2007, and Police Officer Tracy Carter
was promoted to Traffic Enforcement Corporal in December 2007. The board
congratulated both Sgt. Bickel and Corporal Carter.
      B.   Police Chief McKenzie recognized the “Officer of the Year” for 2007,
Detective Dan Phillips and presented him with a plaque. The board congratulated
Detective Phillips.
RECEPTION: Mayor Fields recessed the meeting at 7:13 p.m. for a brief reception
honoring newly appointed Commissioner Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. and the Police
Officers who were promoted and honored.
   Mayor Fields reconvened the meeting at 7:25 p.m.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   There was none.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: The board approved the following items
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting January 28, 2008
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 28, 2008
      C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 12, 2008
       D.   Budget Amendments #8, #9
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT: Copy attached which is and does become part of
these minutes.  
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks opened discussion concerning the request
from Quality Built Homes for approval of the Preliminary Subdivision Plat for
Phase I of Savannah’s Ridge Subdivision. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported
that the Planning Board has voted to recommend approval with conditions, copy
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes. In reference to the
conditions, item #5, Planning Consultant Giles Hopkins asked if a “date
certain” for review could be given by the board. Commissioner Lapping made a
motion to approve the Preliminary Plat, with conditions. Motion died due to the
lack of a second. After much discussion concerning the conditions for approval,
the board voted to approve the Savannah’s Ridge Preliminary Plat, contingent
upon the conditions attached; with noted changes, item #1; Developer constructs
an 8” water line through the development to Pinehurst Avenue, #2; the Highway
22 sewage pump station is upgraded to sufficient capacity to handle the
anticipated flow, #3; all NCDOT, NCDENR and Army Corps. of Engineers permits
are obtained and certification issued, #4; construction plans for developments
are approved by the town, #5; preliminary approval at a future date would be
considered by the Carthage Board of Commissioners to determine compliance with
the referenced conditions, with final approval of the final plat to be given
within 60 days of compliance of the referenced conditions, #6; the developer
will install a fence at least 6 – 8 ft. high on the property line between the
Town of Carthage property and Savannah’s Garden Ridge, which are and do become
part of these minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried. Ron Jackson asked
if he will have to pay the impact fees for each Phase before receiving any
permits to build. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied that it is the town’s
policy to require that impact fees be paid prior to issuance of any permits.
      B.   Discussion began concerning the Preliminary Subdivision Plat for
Pine Tree Estates submitted by LES, Contractors, Inc. Town Manager Carol Sparks
reported that Director of Public Works Rocky Davis has reported that the Hwy 22
lift station has enough capacity to accommodate Pine Tree Estates; (40) houses
and Phase I of Savannah’s Ridge approximately (30) houses. Town Manager Carol
Sparks remarked that the Planning Board had recommended approval with
conditions, copy attached, which are and do become part of these minutes. Mayor
Fields brought attention to the fact that the board has never met the owners of
LES. Attorney Clark Campbell remarked he was representing LES. Mayor Fields
asked Ron Jackson if he knew who the owners of LES were. Ron Jackson remarked
he was not connected to LES. A brief interaction between Mayor Fields and Mr.
Jackson followed. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the mailing addresses
for Quality Built Homes and LES are the same. Mayor Fields called for a motion
to table the request for approval. The board voted to table the request for
approval of the Preliminary Plat for Pine Tree Estates Subdivision, until the
board has an opportunity to meet the owners, following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley, and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
      C.   The Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment for the Fire Department
was approved after a brief discussion, subject to a review of all equipment at
the budget retreat to be held February 21, 2008 following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      D.   Pat Motz-Frazier addressed the board concerning the Moore County
Literacy Council. Ms. Motz-Frazier informed the board that she and Johnny
McNeill are on the Literacy’s Board of Directors and that Mr. McNeill had
planned on attending the meeting but was unable to make it. Ms. Motz-Frazier
reported that presently there are no services provided for Carthage and there
are only two tutors available in Robbins. The Literacy Council has asked that
she come to the board for help in identifying the needs for Carthage and
assistance in referring her to applicable members of the community for help.
Ms. Motz-Frazier remarked that she has been to several of the local church
Pastors and they have indicated that they do not know of any members of their
congregations that can not read. Secondly, Ms. Motz-Frazier informed the board
she needs volunteers to assist with a fund raising event on May 2 at the
Weymouth Center. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated she would be willing to
volunteer at the fund raising event. Mayor Fields commented that the board
needs to do some research before commenting on the needs of the community.
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley remarked that possibly she could speak to retired school
teachers in the area to get some direction. Furthermore, the board suggested
going to Social Services, local banks, as well as, revisiting some of the local
churches. Ms. Motz-Frazier thanked the board for their time concerning this
matter.
      E.   Police Chief McKenzie spoke about a recent request for a “Children
at Play” sign in Tyson Woods, remarking that the Police Department has
increased the enforcement of the speed limit in that area. A brief discussion
followed. Commissioner Lapping remarked that developers should be encouraged to
build play areas away from the streets within subdivisions.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that Town Clerk Melissa Adams had
recently been appointed as Deputy Finance Officer and is training with Finance
Officer/Deputy Town Manager Linda Phillips.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the Planning Board Minutes February 7, 2008 is attached, which are
and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Fields spoke concerning the recent article in the Pilot about himself,
bringing attention to the fact that some things he had spoken about were left
out. Mayor Fields thanked all the town employees for jobs well done.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Planning Board Chairman Billy Salmon spoke about the LES Subdivision,
remarking the owners need to come and introduce themselves at a meeting. Cabin
Branch resident Jim Conway remarked about giving Director of Public Works Rocky
Davis and the employees in the office such a hard time about the water issues
at Cabin Branch, and now the water is great. Mr. Conway also remarked about the
Pilot Newspaper and how they don’t seem to cover Carthage very much. Pilot
Newspaper reporter John Chappell stated that the Pilot has made a big effort to
write more about Carthage and Northern Moore County.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   There was none. 
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:22 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________           ___________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk    Ronnie Fields, Mayor   
FEBRUARY 21, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET RETREAT
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 21, 2008
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Retreat on
Thursday February 21, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Fire Department located
within the Carthage Municipal Building.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, JR., Tom Stewart, and Sherwood Lapping. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Deputy Town
Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Police Chief Chris McKenzie,
Police Captain Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Carthage Rescue Squad
Captain Joe Kamer, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and a representative
from Tri-Star Investors, Inc. George Zaharis.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to hold a budget workshop/retreat for
the fiscal year 2008 – 2009.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 8:40 a.m. Commissioner Dowdy
gave the invocation.
   Discussion and work session began concerning the upcoming 2008 – 2009
budget. Commissioner Lapping remarked he wished to address the fees imposed by
the General Assembly for Privilege Licenses, informing the board he objected to
the ridiculous fees. Commissioner Lapping remarked he also wished to speak
concerning implementing a voluntary program for water customers to round up
their water bills to the nearest dollar, in order to collect money for
infrastructure repair. There was a brief discussion concerning this matter.
   Mayor Fields spoke concerning the recent meeting he and Town Manager Carol
Sparks had attended concerning the sewer rates for Moore County. Mayor Fields
informed the board that the County is planning to increase the present rate
from $1.40 to $2.00. Town Manager Carol Sparks referred to the capacity fees
that the County is asking all municipalities to pay for the next 20 years.
There was a brief discussion concerning these issues. Town Manager Carol Sparks
remarked that next County meeting is set for March 14, 2008.
   Next, George Zaharis from Tri-Star Investors spoke to the board concerning
the Tower Lease agreement that the town currently has with American Tower. Mr.
Zaharis reported that there is some what of a discrepancy with the current
lease agreement with American Tower in regards to the date the lease agreement
runs out. Town Manager Carol Sparks indicated that Town Attorney Doug Gill is
working on the exact date. Discussion began concerning Tri-Star Investors, who
would like the opportunity to bid on the tower lease agreement. Mr. Zaharis
reported that Tri-Star would split the revenues from the tower 50%, plus a
substantial up-front amount. After a presentation and much discussion, it was
decided that due to new information concerning some co-locators on the tower,
Mr. Zaharis would have to present a new proposal. The general consensus of the
board was to research the town’s options, negotiate with American Tower, and
Tri-Star and make a decision based on the best offer for the town. The board
instructed Town Manager Carol Sparks to negotiate on behalf of the town.
   The board moved on to the increased expenditures, with Town Manager Carol
Sparks reporting that after negotiating, and due to the fact that the contract
had run out last year, the contract with Allied Waste Management will only
increase 5% and the proposed $2.00 per tonnage fee will be waived.
   Town Finance Officer Linda Phillips spoke concerning the proposed increase
in the county sewer fees, reporting that the increase will be approximately
$42,000.00 based on last years’ consumption. Town Manager Carol Sparks talked
briefly about the county implementing capacity fees for the next twenty years.
There was much discussion. The board recommended that Carol contact the other
Town Managers to see if they would be willing to negotiate as a group with
Moore County. More discussion followed concerning the increased cost to the
town and whether or not the town should absorb any of the increase.
   Mayor Fields opened discussion concerning the drought and water
conservation. Commissioner Lapping remarked that the town should take the lead
on water conservation, and possibly work with developers to build “green
houses” or eco-friendly homes. Town Manager Carol Sparks suggested this was an
issue the town could talk to the new owners of Little River about. Mayor Fields
brought attention to the rate schedule for higher water users, and suggested
the town look at possibly increasing the rate. Town Manager Carol Sparks
informed the board the water usage has dropped 30% since October.
     The board moved on to an amendment to the personnel policy concerning
elected board members who hold dual offices, or volunteer positions with the
town. After some discussion the board approved an amendment to the personnel
policy requiring an employee or volunteer, who is elected to the board of
commissioners to resign from their position either (paid or volunteer), with
the town, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board approved another amendment to the personnel policy adding
Section 6 - Bereavement Leave to Article VI. – Employee Leave Benefits;
Bereavement leave may be used for death in the employee’s immediate family but
may not exceed three (3) days for any one occurrence. Any additional time must
be used from sick, vacation, or comp time accumulated. Immediate family shall
be deemed to include spouse, mother, father, legal guardian, children, brother,
sister, grandparents, grandchildren, plus various combinations of half, step,
in-laws and adopted relationships that can be derived from those names, and
deleting a paragraph in section 3 – Sick Leave; Sick leave may be used for
death in the employee’s immediate family but may not exceed three (3) days for
any one occurrence Immediate family shall be deemed to include spouse, mother,
father, legal guardian, children, brother, sister, grandparents, grandchildren,
plus various combinations of half, step, in-laws and adopted relationships that
can be derived from those names, followed by a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board approved a change to the Purchase Order Policy, raising the
purchase order requirement from $100.00 to $250.00 and increasing the $750.00
for the Town Manager to sign to $1,000.00 following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Finance Officer Linda Phillips noted that the town is checking into going to
direct deposit for all employees, as well as, the possibility of accepting
debit and credit cards for payments on water accounts. Some discussion
followed.
   Mayor Fields remarked the board would take a break until noon. Mayor Fields
recessed the meeting at 10:30 a.m.
   Mayor Fields reconvened the meeting at 12:15 p.m.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Police Captain Bart Davis presented a power
point presentation concerning their needs for the upcoming fiscal year. Chief
McKenzie highlighted some of the increased line items which were; school/
training, maintenance & repairs, auto supplies/gas, contracted services, and
criminal investigations. Police Chief Chris McKenzie reported that he would
like to replace the weapons currently being issued to police officers. Chief
McKenzie referred to a possible grant he may be able to apply for the
replacement of weapons.
   Captain Bart Davis spoke concerning personnel needs for the future. Captain
Davis reported that with the increased population expected with all the new
developments that it was leading to an excess in compensatory time for the
police officers. Chief McKenzie and Captain Davis reported that the Police
Department would like to apply for a grant for two additional officers, and
fund a third through the town budget. There was a general discussion concerning
how the grants works and what items are funded. The general consensus of the
board was to allow Chief McKenzie to apply for the grant for the two additional
officers.
   Fire Chief Brian Tyner spoke to the board concerning his proposed 2008 –
2009 budget requests. After review of the Fire Department equipment inventory,
the board voted to declare the 1982 Chevrolet Tanker 315 surplus, following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   Next, the board reviewed quotes on a new brush truck that the Fire
Department would like to purchase. Fire Chief Tyner indicated the purchase
would be made with money that was bequeathed to the Fire Department from Mrs.
Louise Sinclair. The board approved the purchase of a Ford F-550 brush truck
from Fouts Bros., Inc. in the amount of $65,300.00, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Fire Chief Brain Tyner spoke concerning a request to build sleeping quarters
in the fire station. Because of the increase of fire and medical calls, Chief
Tyner reported that the Fire Department would like to begin planning for the
future of full time staff 24 hours a day. The board reviewed two estimates for
the proposed sleeping quarters. Some discussion followed. The board recommended
that Chief Tyner obtain itemized estimates for the proposed work. Fire Chief
Tyner went over a proposed increase to the Fire Service District tax. Some
discussion followed. The board approved the addition of two full time
employees, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke
concerning the good job Fire Chief Tyner is doing.
   Joe Kamer, Captain of the Carthage Rescue Squad spoke to the board
concerning the possibility of the Rescue Squad and the Fire Department merging.
There was much discussion concerning this issue. Mayor Fields stated that the
town would be taking over liability issues if the two entities were combined.
There was some discussion concerning the money Moore County gives to the Rescue
Squad. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that if the Rescue Squad was merged
with the Fire Department the County would probably cut off any funding. There
was some discussion concerning the Rescue Squad building and how if would be
used if the two departments were merged. The general consensus of the board was
that much more investigation into the legalities of a possible merger was
needed before a decision could be made. Town Manager Carol Sparks instructed
Captain Kamer to obtain a copy of last years audit as well as, a copy of the
deed to the building for the board to review.
   Next, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis spoke concerning his proposed
budget requests, remarking that he basically took last years budget and
rearranged some of the figures. The board reviewed the Rural Center Grants that
the town presently has.
   There was discussion concerning the possibility of a water and a sewer line
that would run to Robbins. The estimated figures for the cost of such a project
were approximately 8 million for sewer and 3.1 million for water. Discussion
followed concerning Moore County’s sewer upgrades.
   There was discussion concerning streets and sidewalks, with the board
reviewing a list streets that were in need of repairs and resurfacing. Finance
Officer Linda Phillips spoke concerning the money the town receives from the
Powell Bill, which is used to fund street repairs, resurfacing and paving.
Commissioner Dowdy spoke concerning trimming the trees and bushes along the
streets. Commissioner Dowdy remarked that possibly the town could hire someone
to do the work. There was some discussion.
   Director of Public Works Rocky Davis spoke concerning some of his proposed
equipment needs. The board reviewed a list of funded and unfunded equipment
requests for the Public Works Department. There was some discussion concerning
the request for a combination cleaning/vacuuming truck.
   Next, the board reviewed a list of water line loops that could possibly be
funded in this year’s budget, as well as, the 2008 – 2009 budget. Discussion
followed.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke concerning Planning and Development. The
board reviewed present and future development projects. Mayor Fields inquired
about the proposed sewer upgrade at Little River. Town Manager Carol Sparks
reported that the current owners of Little River know that there can be no
development until the sewer upgrades are completed.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that the proposed changes to the Zoning
Ordinance will possibly be ready for review the end of March. Furthermore, Town
Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the Land Use Plan will need to be updated.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks brought attention to the town’s ETJ, remarking
that during 1998 – 1999 when the town annexed a large number of properties, the
one mile extra territorial zoning jurisdiction was not extended in those areas.
The board approved extending the one mile extra territorial zoning jurisdiction
in the areas that had been annexed during 1998 – 1999, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked she would get started on the
mapping process for the ETJ.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 3:05 p.m.
____________________________         _________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
MARCH 16, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 16, 2009
6:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
March 16, 2009 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 203 McReynolds
Street in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, Robert Sullivan, and Tom Stewart. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley
was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, Carthage Firefighters Bryan Phillips, Brian Whitaker, Rachael Phillips,
Chris Chisholm, Justin Boyd, and Chad Thomason.
   Also in attendance were Members of the Carthage Rescue Squad Joe Kamer, Lynn
Kamer, and Max Muse. John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper was also present.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the Carthage Fire
Department priority one calls.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting order at 6:04 p.m.
   Fire Chief Brian Tyner began a power point presentation concerning the data
for priority one calls in 2008. The figures showed a comparison of the
percentage of calls answered by the Carthage Rescue Squad and the Carthage Fire
Department during 2008. Chief Tyner indicated that it was the desire of the
Carthage Fire Department to go to a 24/7 (24) twenty four hours (7) days a week
capacity.
   Carthage Rescue Squad Captain Joe Kamer spoke concerning the meeting,
remarking that he did not know about the meeting, and only recently found out
about it. Furthermore, Mr. Kamer stated he felt that some of the figures
presented in the power point presentation were inaccurate. Mr. Kamer remarked
that he agreed that the Carthage Rescue Squad needs more help especially during
the day when the majority of members are at work.
   A brief discussion followed between Mr. Kamer, Lynn Kamer and Fire Chief
Brian Tyner concerning the discussion last year about the possibility of the
Rescue Squad and the Fire Department possibly merging. Rescue Squad member Max
Muse remarked that the number of calls during the day and during the night are
pretty even.
   Mayor Fields asked if the Fire Department would have the man power to answer
calls 24/7. Chief Tyner replied that the current staff is willing to work (12)
twelve hour shifts in an effort to be able to respond to calls on a 24/7 (24)
twenty four hours (7) days a week basis. Discussion followed concerning whether
or not the Fire Department should be allowed to try answering calls on a 24/
7 schedule for a trial period of time.
   After much discussion Commissioner Sullivan made a motion to add this item
to the Regular Meeting Agenda, seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 6:35 p.m.
_______________________            _________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
MARCH 17, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 17, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday March 17, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, Milton Dowdy, Jr., and Robert Sullivan. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also in attendance were Planning Consultant Giles Hopkins, Real Estate Agent
Becky Csiszar, and Reporter for the Pilot John Chappell.    
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
   Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
   Item A. Old Business: Pine Tree Estates Preliminary Subdivision Plat, was
added to the agenda following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None.  
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 18, 2008
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 21, 2008
      C.   Budget Transfer #G
       D.   Budget Amendments #10, #11, #12
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes.  
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks began discussion concerning the
Preliminary Subdivision Plat for Savannah’s Garden Phase II, remarking the
Planning Board had approved the preliminary plat; however they had requested
that the Town Board ask Ron Jackson to consider increasing the minimum lot
sizes from 8,000 sq. ft. to 10,000 sq. ft. Furthermore, Town Manager Carol
Sparks referred to a copy of the conditions of approval for the preliminary
plat, copy attached, which are and do become part of these minutes. Town
Manager Carol Sparks discussed condition #7 concerning the emergency entrance/
exit. Discussion began concerning the minimum lot size of 8,000 sq. ft. with
Mayor Fields remarking that the lots were not in compliance because the trees
were cleared off the property. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that in order
to comply with the lower density, the trees should have been left intact,
however Stafford Land Company retained the timber rights when the property was
sold to Quality Built. Furthermore, there was never anything in writing
concerning the trees. Much discussion followed. Commissioner Dowdy spoke
concerning the request to Ron Jackson concerning the increase in the minimum
lot sizes, remarking that this item should be postponed until the request could
be sent to Ron Jackson. There was some discussion concerning checking the
minutes of the Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board to verify approval
of the 8,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size. Mayor Fields also brought attention to
the buffer that was supposed to be left around the property. The board approved
sending a letter requesting that Ron Jackson consider increasing the minimum
lot sizes from 8,000 sq. ft. lots to 10,000 sq. ft. lots following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes.
Motion carried. Approval of the Preliminary Plat for Savannah’s Garden Phase II
was tabled until Ron Jackson has an opportunity to respond to the request for
an increase in the minimum lot size, and the minutes can be checked for
approval of the minimum of 8,000 sq. ft. lots. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   Mayor Fields inquired about the owners of LES being present at the
meeting. Becky Csiszar announced she was here to represent the owners of LES,
remarking that the Vice President of LES has previously presented herself.
Furthermore, Ms Csiszar reported that the owners wish to retain their privacy.
John Chappell remarked he had allowed surveyors to cross his property, only if
he could obtain a copy of shareholders for the company. John Chappell stated he
has not been given a copy of the list of share holders as of yet, but would
share the information with the town if and when he receives it. Commissioner
Sullivan asked Ms. Csiszar why the owners won’t come forward. Ms. Csiszar
replied that the owners of the company have a right to their privacy, and are
not obligated at this time to disclose their names. Furthermore, Ms. Csiszar
stated that they were not sure why the town needs to know at this time. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported that they have to disclose the ownership when the
first report is due to the Department of Commerce. Mayor Fields remarked that
they have not been forthcoming with any information to the town from the
beginning. Ms. Csiszar remarked that her obligation is to her client, and if
they wished to retain their privacy they have a right to do so. Commissioner
Lapping remarked that although they do have a right to privacy, this makes it
more difficult for the town board. Mayor Fields stated the board was merely
trying to preserve and protect the town. Ms. Csiszar replied that the town is
protected because of the zoning and subdivision regulations. After much more
discussion, the board approved the Preliminary Plat for Pine Tree Estates, with
the following conditions;
1. Developer constructs 8” water line loop from Savannah’s Garden to Pinehurst
Avenue. 2. The Highway 22 sewage pump station is upgraded to sufficient
capacity or is determined to have sufficient capacity to handle the anticipated
demand. 3. All necessary NCDOT, NCDENR, and Army Corps. of Engineers permits
are obtained and certification issued. 4. Construction plans for development,
including infrastructure plans are approved by the town. 5. Approval of the
final plat to be given within 60 days of compliance of the above referenced
conditions, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: A copy of the Planning Board Minutes March
13, 2008 is attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Lapping spoke about the recent tornado warning, remarking that
the town needs to implore the county to invest in a new reverse 911 system or
some means to warn citizens of possible impending disasters. Furthermore,
Commissioner Lapping would like to see the town’s siren activated and tested
regularly. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated that Public Works has the cemetery
looking exceptionally nice. Commissioner Dowdy remarked about the improved
appearance of the front of the municipal building. Commissioner Lapping
informed Director of Public Works Rocky Davis that the clock downtown is one
hour behind, due to the change in daylight savings time, and the side facing
Dowd Street is not working properly. Mayor Fields inquired about the letter
being sent to the county requesting help with the paving on Pinehurst Street.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   The board moved into a closed session at 7:50 p.m. following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried. Mayor Fields reconvened the regular meeting at 8:00 p.m. There was no
action to be taken.   
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m.  
__________________________         ____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
APRIL 2, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 2, 2008
5:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Wednesday
April 2, 2008 at 5:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, Milton Dowdy, Jr., Sherwood Lapping, and Robert Sullivan. A full
board.
   Others present were members of the Robbins Town Board, Mayor Theron Bell,
Council Members Mark Garner, Mary Wood, Lynn Lou, Town Manager Brant Sykes,
from Whispering Pines Council Member Frank Zamaroni, and distinguished guest
Carl Stenberg, III Director of the MPA program at UNC School of Government.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Deputy Town
Manager Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen
O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain
Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and
from the Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to hear a presentation from Mr. Carl
Stenberg, III concerning the various forms of government; Mayor/Council,
Council/Administrator, and Council/Manager.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 5:05 p.m. Commissioner Dowdy
gave the invocation.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks introduced Mr. Stenberg. Mr. Stenberg began by
giving an overview of the organizational charts which had previously been
passed out to all in attendance. Mr. Stenberg remarked that the Council/Manager
form of government is based on the premise that government should be run like a
business. The manager runs the day to day operations and is responsible for the
personnel management. Mr. Stenberg went on to explain that the manager has a
role in policy matter, providing the council with information and advice. The
manager implements the policy set by the board. Mr. Stenberg brought attention
to other responsibilities of the manager; the manager prepares the budget, and
is responsible for the appointment and/or removal of Department Heads.
   Furthermore, Mr. Stenberg reported that the manager’s role/duties are set
forth in the NC General Statues. The board should trust the manager as a
professional to run the day to day operations of the town/city.
   Mayor Fields remarked that we would take a brief recess in order for
everyone to get a sandwich. The meeting recessed at 5:45 p.m.
   Mayor Fields reconvened the meeting at 6:00 p.m.
   Mr. Stenberg went on to discuss that the manager reports to the board as a
whole. The board should conduct an annual review of the manager’s job
performance.
   Mr. Stenberg went over the differences of the duties of a council member and
the duties as a mayor; remarking that the Mayor is usually the first among
equals, the leader of the council, and the representative of the community.
Generally it is a ceremonial position, with no voting rights unless there is a
tie among the council.
   There was a brief discussion concerning confidentiality, with Mr. Stenberg
reminding the board that they operate in the “sunshine” unless there are
specific reasons for a closed session that are allowed by law.
   In closing, Mr. Stenberg touched upon points already spoken concerning the
board holding the manager accountable for the day to day operations, and
personnel issues, remarking that in most cases it has allowed for a more
efficient run government.
   Mayor Fields thanked Mr. Stenberg for coming to speak.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 6:40 p.m.
___________________________      ___________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Ronnie Fields, Mayor
APRIL 21, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 21, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday April 21, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., and Robert Sullivan. A
full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis,
Police Captain Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and David McKew of Hydro
Management.
   Also present were Stephen and Becky Ennis, Kaye and Steve Boggs, Prissy
Newell, Russell Pate from St. Joseph’s of the Pines, Michael Waschsen,
Stephanie Stone, John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper, and numerous property
owners who were attending the meeting concerning the two requests for rezoning.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Lapping led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Mr. Russell Pate of St. Joseph’s of the Pines addressed the board
concerning their desire to possibly build a low income facility in Carthage.
Mr. Pate spoke concerning other facilities that St. Joseph’s has been involved
in building informing the board they have a waiting list for the facility
located in Aberdeen. Through the Department of Housing and Urban Development
they can apply for a grant to build low income housing for senior citizens and
they are researching appropriate locations in Carthage. Mr. Pate indicated they
would like to receive feed back from the Board of Commissioners as to whether
such a facility would be supported by the town council. The general consensus
of the board was that there is a need for such housing in Carthage.
      B.   Amy Prevost and Troy Taylor who had requested to be placed on the
agenda concerning the water rates and water cut off procedure were not in
attendance.
      C.   David McKew gave an update on the water plant operations. Mayor
Fields remarked that he had recently received a letter from the Governor to
still conserve water, as we are not out of the woods with the drought.
      E.    Mike Waschsen addressed the board concerning a sewer problem his
daughter has been having at the house she rents on Brooklyn Street, remarking
that he was very disappointed in the way the problem has been handled. Mr.
Waschsen explained that sometime last fall his daughter’s garage became filled
with sewage, getting all over his grandchildren’s toys. Mr. Waschsen reported
this has happened two other times since then. Mr. Waschsen stated he has spoken
to DEHNER and they are in the process of investigating the incidents. Mr.
Waschsen stated the town has a Capital Improvement Fund that can be utilized
for such repairs. Furthermore, Mr. Waschsen stated he felt the town was
obligated to repair the problem and that he was very disappointed in the way
this matter has been handled. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis reported he
had installed a check valve to keep the sewer from going into the house.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis stated it will require approximately
$55,100.00 to repair the problem, but would fix the problems with Pinecrest
Street as well. Mayor Fields remarked the town will take care of the matter and
apologized to Mr. Waschsen for the problems. The board voted to proceed with
action to repair the sewer problem on Brooklyn Street, following a motion made
by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing on the request for rezoning
from Kay Badgett Boggs at 7:25 p.m. Ms. Boggs was requesting rezoning of 44.36
acres behind her house located at 3676 Hwy 15-501 from RA-40 “Residential
40,000 sq. ft. lots” to TBD “Thoroughfare Business District”. Ms. Boggs
addressed the board concerning her request remarking that she plans to combine
the property into one lot and she will be requesting annexation of the
property. Ms. Boggs reported that her property that fronts on Hwy 15-501 is
zoned TBD and she wished to have all of her property zoned the same. Ms. Boggs
remarked it was her desire to sell the property as one lot. Furthermore, Ms.
Boggs reported that she would not do anything that would disgrace Carthage.
There were many residents of Stone Gate Subdivision who were in attendance.
There was some discussion concerning the required buffer. Town Manager Carol
Sparks reported that the Planning Board voted to recommend the rezoning, with a
40” to 50’ buffer. Prissy Newell, spoke first, remarking that she owns the
majority of land that abuts the property in question and she has no objections
to the rezoning. Nancy Rogers and Nancy Talton handed out maps, as well as a
petition against the rezoning, copies attached, which are and do become part of
these minutes, showing adjoining property owners and how the property is zoned
to the Board of Commissioners. Ms. Talton informed the board she is the
spokesperson for the residents of Stonegate. Ms. Talton read a letter to the
board concerning the request for rezoning, informing the board the adjoining
property owners are against the rezoning, and speaking about urban sprawl and
preserving the historic, small town character, as well as protecting and
preserving the surrounding subdivisions. Ms. Talton remarked that the town
should promote business in appropriate locations. Furthermore, Ms. Talton
informed the board that if it is rezoned that the residents of Stonegate would
request that a 100 ft, buffer be required. There was much discussion concerning
the letter Ms. Talton read. Ms. Talton asked the board if this property meets
the criteria for the Town’s Land Use Plan, and was this in the best interest
for the town. Mayor Fields replied that the board takes all those things into
consideration before making a decision on rezoning. Mr. Keith Wright spoke,
informing the board he was an adjoining property owner. Mr. Wright remarked he
felt he would not be able to sell his property if the town rezones this
property to allow for businesses. There was much more discussion between the
adjoining property owners and the board, with the majority of those that spoke
against the rezoning. There was discussion concerning the current zoning and
what that allows, as well as, the possibility of the proposed DOT by-pass.
There was more discussion concerning the buffer requirement. Mayor Fields
closed the Public Hearing at 8:25 p.m. The board voted to approve the request
for rezoning from Kaye Boggs from RA-40 to TBD, with the following conditions;
a 40 foot buffer would be required; and annexation into the town limits would
be required, with the board reserving the right to impose more conditions if
required, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart. The board voted to add the requirement that the property
be consolidated into one lot following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, All ayes. Motion carried.
      B.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing on the request for rezoning
from Stephen Ennis at 8:31 p.m. Mr. Ennis is requesting rezoning of 408 McNeill
Street from R-20 “Residential 20,000 sq. ft. lots” to a Special Use District
Commercial Business District/Special Use District to allow for Professional
Offices. Mr. Ennis explained he has purchased the property and would like to
relocate his Real Estate Business at that location. Mr. Ennis remarked that the
parking had become problematic at his present location on Monroe Street. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported that several of the residents had been worried
about Mr. Ennis putting a driveway on Sunset Drive, however, there is a sewer
right-of-way located along that side of the property. Mr. Ennis remarked he had
no plans to put a driveway off of Sunset Drive, he only wanted to improve the
appearance of the property by cleaning it up and making it look more
presentable.
   Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at 8:36 p.m.
   The board voted to approve the request for rezoning from Stephen Ennis to
rezone 408 McNeill Street from R-20 to a Special Use District to permit
Professional Offices only, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 17, 2008
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting April 2, 2008
      C.   Budget Transfer #H
       D.   Proclamation Municipal Clerks Week May 4 through May 10, 2008
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. 
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The Board voted to award the Contract for the US Hwy 15-501 – NC 22
Project (Little River Loop) to SKC, Inc. in the amount of $854,760.00 following
a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.
      B.   The board set the date for the May Budget Workshop for Thursday May
29, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C.   Town Manager Carol Sparks reminded the board about the Water Vision
Conference Thursday May 22, 2008 from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. at the Research
Triangle Park. Mayor Fields remarked he would try to attend. Commissioners
Dowdy, Lapping, Sullivan, Stewart, and Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated they will try
to attend as well.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that she had received the revised
preliminary plat for Savannah’s Garden Phase II, and that most of the lots had
been increased to 10,000 sq. ft. lots or more.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the Planning Board Minutes April 3, 2008 is attached, which are
and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley remarked the dedication of the Municipal Building to
“Dr. Bill” will be held on Sunday May 18, 2008 at 2:00 p.m. Commissioner
Stewart commended the town Public Works Department remarking that the cemetery
looked great. Commissioner Lapping informed the board he will be away for the
June Regular Meeting and would like to have the date changed. After some
discussion, the board voted to change the June Regular Meeting to Monday June
9, 2008 at 7:00 p.m., following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and
seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Kaye Boggs thanked the board for the manner in which they handled her
request for rezoning.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   None.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 9:08 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
________________________         __________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
MAY 19, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 19, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, May 19, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. and Robert Sullivan. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manger Carol Sparks, Administrative Assistant/
Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police
Chief Chris McKenzie and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Claudette Dowdy, Kaye Boggs, Ron Jackson from Quality
Built Homes and John Chappell from The Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:  
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Sullivan gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   There was none. 
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing on the request for rezoning
from Katie Badgett and Kaye Badgett Boggs at 7:10 p.m. Ms. Badgett and Ms.
Boggs were requesting rezoning of .39 acres located at 3664 Hwy 15/501 from R-
20 “Residential 20,000 square foot lots” to TBD “Thoroughfare Business
District”. Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at 7:15 p.m. The board voted
to approve the request for rezoning from Katie Badgett and Kaye Badgett Boggs
from R-20 to TBD following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded
by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.  
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 21, 2008
      B.   Budget Transfers # I, #J
      C.   Budget Amendments #13, #14, #15
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.   
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The board voted to approve the Resolution Directing the Clerk to
Investigate a Petition for the Vicki Kaye Badgett Boggs Annexation following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried.
      B.   The board voted to approve the Certificate of Sufficiency for the
Vicki Kaye Badgett Boggs Annexation following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C.   The board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the Date of Public
Hearing on the Question of the Vicki Kaye Badgett Boggs Annexation to be held
at the McDonald Building at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, June 16, 2008 following a
motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayer Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
      D.   The board voted to approve the building plans for Peking Wok after a
brief discussion concerning leaving trees on the property as a buffer, the
number of parking spaces that will be available and putting a fence around the
air conditioning unit, following a motion by Commissioner Lapping and seconded
by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion approved.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   The board changed the date of the June meeting back to June 16, 2008
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.  
      B.   Town Manager Carol Sparks opened discussion concerning the request
from Quality Built Homes for approval of the reconfigured Savannah’s Garden
Phase II subdivision plans. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that there are
still nine lots under 10,000 square feet and the Planning Board had three
members in favor of the subdivision plans and two members who did not recommend
approval since not all of the lots are 10,000 square feet or larger. After some
discussion concerning the conditions for approval, the board voted to approve
the Savannah’s Garden Phase II subdivision plan, contingent upon the conditions
attached with noted changes, item #1: Developer constructs 8” water line
from Pinehurst Avenue through Pinetree Estates to McNeill Street (Hwy 22), #2:
the Hwy 22 sewage pump station is upgraded to sufficient capacity to handle the
anticipated demand, #3: All NCDOT, NCDENR and Army Corps of Engineer permits
are obtained and certification issued. This includes obtaining a driveway
permit to McNeill Street (Hwy 22) for the emergency exit/entrance, #4:
Construction plans for infrastructure to be taken over by the Town are approved
by the Town, #5: Approval of the final plat to be given within 60 days of
compliance of the above referenced conditions, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
approved.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the Planning Board minutes May 1, 2008 is attached, which are and
do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Stewart commended Public Works on how nice the town property
looks and how they did such a timely job cleaning up after the building
dedication on Sunday. Commissioner Riley commented that it was a shame that
they didn’t know all of the facts about the sewer situation on Brooklyn Street
when it was discussed at the last meeting. Commissioner Sullivan commended
Rocky on the Buggy Festival clean up. Mayor Fields commended everyone who
worked on the Buggy Festival and the building dedication. He also commented on
how nice the cemetery looked. Commissioner Dowdy questioned whether all
cemetery plot owners knew that they were not allowed to plant flowers/plants in
the new section. There was a brief discussion about the old sections of the
cemetery. Commissioner Lapping commended the police department on how they
handled an incident at the Buggy Festival.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Kaye Boggs thanked everyone for working with her on the rezoning of her
property.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   The board moved into a closed session at 7:39 p.m. following a motion made
by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All ayes. Motion
carried. Mayor Fields reconvened the regular meeting at 8:30 p.m. There was no
action taken.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.  
_____________________________         _________________________
   Karen O’Hara, Deputy Town Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor
MAY 29, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 29, 2008
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday May
29, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. in the Carthage Fire Department training room.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, Milton Dowdy, Jr., Robert Sullivan, and Sherwood Lapping. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Deputy Town
Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Fire Chief Brian Tyner,
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police
Captain Bart Davis, Ron Jackson, Neal Smith of Neal Smith Engineering, and
Scott Matthews.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss and take possible action
concerning the conditions placed on the approval of the Savannah’s Garden Phase
II Preliminary Subdivision Plat and to hold a budget workshop for the FY 2008 –
2009.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 8:35 a.m. and Commissioner Dowdy
gave the invocation.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks began discussion concerning the conditions that
were placed on the approval of Savannah’s Garden Phase II Preliminary
Subdivision Plat approval. Commissioner Lapping stated his motion approving the
preliminary plat, with conditions at the monthly meeting on May 19, 2008
Regular Meeting was not sufficient. It has been recommended by Town Manager
Carol Sparks that the condition that the developer construct an 8” water loop
through Savannah’s Ridge Subdivision to Pinehurst Avenue be added to the list
of conditions of approval. Commissioner Lapping made a motion to add to the
list of conditions of approval for the preliminary plat approval for Savannah’s
Garden Phase II, developer to construct an 8” water loop through Savannah’s
Ridge to Pinehurst Avenue. Motion seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. Discussion
began.
   Ron Jackson stated he is working with the Corps of Engineers concerning the
wetlands in Savannah’s Ridge. Mr. Jackson remarked that the Corps of Engineers
will not allow him to run a water line through the wetlands. Commissioner
Lapping communicated that the water lines have to loop; there can not be any
dead end lines. Discussion began concerning the previous conditions that were
placed on the approval of the subdivision plat. Mayor Fields explained the
conditions were placed on the approval because of water quality issues. Mr.
Jackson reiterated that he is trying to get approval to move forward, however,
he will not be allowed to go through the wetlands. Mr. Jackson remarked that he
needs to put the water line loop in another way. Discussion began between
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Scott Matthews concerning another way
to loop the water line. Commissioner Lapping withdrew his previous motion.
After much discussion among the board members and Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis concerning an alternate route for the water line loop, it was
decided to place an additional condition on the approval of the preliminary
subdivision plat for Savannah’s Garden Phase II; developer to construct an 8”
water loop from Savannah’s Garden to an appropriate water line location, as
approved by the Town of Carthage, following a motion made by Commissioner
Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that she had just received a copy of the
proposed Fire contract with Moore County, adding that it needs to be reviewed
to see if the changes have been made. Commissioner Lapping stated he and
Commissioner Stewart would review the contract and the board could possibly
approve it today, if all the changes were made. The board approved placing an
additional item on the agenda; discussion and possible action concerning the
proposed Fire Service District contract with Moore County, following a motion
made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   Next the board moved onto the proposed budget for FY 2008- 2009. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reviewed some of the highlights. Town Manager Carol Sparks
informed the board that the budget reflects increases in the sewer and trash
fees, which had previously been discussed at the budget retreat. Moore County
is increasing the fee that the town is charged, there was some discussion
concerning the proposed sewer rate chart. Mayor Fields inquired about a fuel
contract with Moore County, remarking that they will more than likely require
one in the future. There was some discussion concerning this item. Town Manager
Carol Sparks will seek an alternate source of fuel purchases, should this
happen.
   Commissioner Sullivan remarked about the 3% cost of living increase and the
2% merit increase for all employees, stating that he thought the town could do
better than that. The board agreed to increase the merit raises to 3% for all
employees. Finance Officer Linda Phillips brought attention to the longevity
pay for full time employees. It was decided she would make proposed changes to
increase the longevity pay and present at the budget workshop before the
regular meeting in June.
   Next the board discussed the pay per call for the firemen. Presently the
firemen are receiving $5.00 per call. It was decided this could be increased to
$7.00 per call without any changes to the budget.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks discussed the proposed sewer improvements for
Brooklyn Street. Estimates with engineering costs are in the $55,000.00 range.
There was some discussion concerning this item.
   Mayor Fields remarked that he would like to come up with a way the sewer-vac
could be purchased. There was much discussion concerning this item. Finance
Officer Linda Phillips is to review possible ways to fund the purchase of this
item and make recommendations to the board.
   It was decided that Finance Officer Linda Phillips would prepare a list of
all the employees and salaries for the board to review.
   Mayor Fields recessed the meeting at 10:50 a.m.
   Mayor Fields reconvened the budget workshop at 11:05 a.m.
   The board approved the Fire Service District Contract with Moore County
following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner
Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 11:10, following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_____________________________      _____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Ronnie Fields, Mayor
JUNE 16, 2008
 TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 16, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday June 16, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A quorum. Commissioner
Sherwood Lapping was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Deputy Town
Manager Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/ Deputy Town Clerk Karen
O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and
Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Concerned citizens present were Kaye Boggs, and Mr. & Mrs. Tim Allred.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
   Commissioner Sullivan gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing for the Proposed FY 2008 –
2009 Budget at 7:02 p.m. There was no opposition to the proposed budget. Mayor
Fields closed the Public Hearing at 7:03 p.m.
      B.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing for the request for
Annexation from Vickie Kaye Badgett Boggs. The property is 44.36 acres located
behind her house located at 3676 Hwy 15-501. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked
that the board had recently rezoned this property to TBD “Thoroughfare Business
District”. Besides Kaye Boggs, there was not anyone present who wished to speak
at the Public Hearing. Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at 7:04 p.m.
   The board adopted the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town
of Carthage for the Annexation of Vickie Kaye Badgett Boggs, following a motion
made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes.
Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 19, 2008
      B.   Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Workshop May 29, 2008
      C.   Budget Transfer K
      D.   Budget Amendments #16, #17
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.   
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The Board voted to adopt the FY 2008 – 2009 Budget and Budget
Ordinance, following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  
      B.   The Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage
for the Boggs Annexation had previously been passed.
      C.   Tim Allred addressed the board concerning his desire to purchase
bulk water informing the board he is able to purchase bulk water everywhere
except Carthage. Mr. Allred explained that he purchased the bulk water business
from Keith’s. Mayor Fields stated that bulk sales were stopped due to the
draught. The board approved resuming the sale of bulk water, at the out of town
rate, as conditions permit; if draught conditions worsen, bulk sales will be
discontinued, following a motion made by Tom Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      D.   The board set the meeting date for the joint Planning Board and
Board of Commissioners to review the new proposed Zoning Ordinance for
 Wednesday July 23, 2008 at 4:00 p.m.
      E.   The board decided to table the Amendment Memorandum – Triangle
Council of Governments, until the next regular meeting due to a lack of
understanding of the amendment.
      F. Mayor Fields appointed Commissioner Tom Stewart to serve on the Moore
County Summit Water Task Force.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   There was none. 
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in June.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   There were none.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   None.   
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 7:24 p.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
___________________________         _______________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
JUNE 16, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MONDAY JUNE 16, 2008
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Workshop
on Monday June 16, 2008 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., and Robert Sullivan. A quorum. Commissioner
Lapping was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Deputy Town
Manager Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen
O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to hold a Budget Workshop for the FY
2008 – 2009.
   Mayor Fields opened the meeting at 6:00 p.m.
   Discussion began concerning items that were to be reviewed by Finance
Officer Linda Phillips for possible changes. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed
the board that the water rates were reviewed and it is the opinion of the
Finance Officer that water rates should not be increased to purchase equipment
that is to be used primarily for sewer.
   Finance Officer Linda Phillips informed the board, the longevity pay had
been revised, as requested at the last budget workshop. The longevity pay was
approved as presented, copy attached, which is and does become part of these
minutes.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
had found an alternative to the large Vac-Truck which was discussed at the last
Budget Workshop. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis stated he had found a
jet-vac that is pulled behind a truck on a trailer. Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis commented that this type of jet-vac is easier to get into difficult
locations, and works the same as a vac-truck. There was some discussion
concerning this alternative. The cost for the jet-vac is approximately
$120,000.00. Finance Officer Linda Phillips is to investigate the best
financing available.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks brought attention to the irrigation rates,
remarking that it is recommended they be increased to $.0065 per gallon. Bulk
water sales were also discussed.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks highlighted other items that had been previously
discussed and changed at the previous workshop; the increase to the sewer rates
and garbage rates.
   The board discussed with Director of Public Works Rocky Davis possible
alternatives to purchasing gas through Moore County.
   The board reviewed the pay scales for all employees.
   The general consensus of the board was that they were pleased with the
proposed budget for FY 2008 – 2009 and they thanked Finance Officer Linda
Phillips and Town Manager Carol Sparks for all the hard work in creating the
proposed budget.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 6:45 p.m.
________________________         ___________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
JULY 21, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 21, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday July 21, 2008 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping, Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police
Major Bart Davis, Police Officer Luke Yang, Auxiliary Police Officer Tim
Dalton, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Others present were Wendy Russell, Reverend Chuck Plowman, Timothy Boyte,
Chris Cleveland, and Jim & Cindy Conway.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Reverend Chuck Plowman gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced Police Officer Luke Yang.
Officer Yang was welcomed by the board members.
      B.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie introduced Auxiliary Police Officer Tim
Dalton. Officer Dalton was welcomed by the board members.
      C.   Mrs. Jonathan Frye who had asked to be placed on the agenda to speak
about her water being turned off this past month was not present.
      D.   Laura Love who had asked to be placed on the agenda concerning the
trash service in Carthage was not present.
      E.    On behalf of the Buggy Festival Committee Carol Sparks and Linda
Phillips presented a check in the amount of $2000.00 to Reverend Chuck Plowman
for the Carthage Food Pantry, and a check to Wendy Russell in the amount of
$1000.00 for the Arc of Moore County. Reverend Plowman and Wendy Russell
thanked everyone.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing at 7:07 p.m. The Public
Hearing was to hear a request for rezoning from Timothy Boyte for 8.20 acres
from RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq. ft. lots to HCD “Highway
Commercial District”. Mr. Boyte spoke briefly concerning his request, remarking
that he would like to build a 12,000 sq. ft. commercial building, with 6,000
sq. ft. reserved for a new vet clinic/hospital and the remaining 6,000 sq. ft.
for retail space. Mr. Boyte indicated his sister will be moving her hair salon
into the facility, and his wife would like to house a bookstore in a portion of
the remaining space. Mr. Boyte informed the board he is asking that the
property be annexed into the town limits. Mayor Fields adjourned the Public
Hearing at 7:14 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special/Budget Workshop Meeting June
16, 2008
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 16, 2008
      C.   Budget Transfer #L, #M
      D.   Budget Amendments #18, #19
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The board approved the request for rezoning from Timothy Boyte and
Pamela McKinnon for 8.20 acres from RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000 sq.
ft. lots to HCD “Highway Commercial District”, following a motion made by
Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      B.   The board adopted the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale for a 95 Ford Truck and a 503 gallon Motor Grader, following a
motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Lapping. All
ayes. Motion carried.  
      C.   The board adopted the Resolution for the financing for the Sewer-
Vacuum System with RBC Bank, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping
and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      D.   The board adopted the Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate
Pamela McKinnon/Timothy Boyte Request for Non-Contiguous Annexation, following
a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
      E.   The board accepted the Certificate of Sufficiency for the McKinnon/
Boyte Annexation.
      F.   The board adopted the Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing for
August 18, 2008 on Question of Non-Contiguous Annexation for Pamela McKinnon/
Timothy Boyte, following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
      G.   The board voted to Reappoint Planning Board Members Vernon Kelly,
Percy Degraffenreid, and Mark Fry, following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.  
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in July.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Fields spoke concerning Michael Quick who lives on Millbrook Street,
remarking that he needs to have his water meter moved. Mr. Quick’s water line
and meter are located on property owned by another person and he is afraid that
if that property is sold his water would be cut off. Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis is to look into the best solution to move Mr. Quick’s water line
and meter. There was also discussion concerning fire protection on Millbrook.
Presently the closest fire hydrant is located on the corner of Simpson Street
and Currie Street. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner are to investigate this issue and get back to the board.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   There were none.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   The board went into a closed session at 7:33 p.m. to discuss legal matters
and personnel following a motion made by Commissioner Lapping and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.   
   Mayor Fields reconvened the Regular Meeting at 8:30 p.m., remarking there
had been no action taken.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.   
_________________________      __________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Ronnie Fields, Mayor
JULY 23, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
SPECIAL/JOINT MEETING
JULY 23, 2008
4:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Town of Carthage
Planning Board held a Special/Joint Meeting on Wednesday July 23, 2008 at 4:00
p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Sherwood Lapping, Milton Dowdy, Jr., and Tom Stewart. A full
board.
   Planning Board Members present were Connie Burns, Chris Lassiter, Bob Hunt,
Mark Fry, Max Muse, and Vernon Kelly. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and
Urban Planning Consultant Stephen E. Davenport.
   The purpose of the Special/Joint Meeting was to discuss and to review the
proposed new Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances and to take action on the TARPO
Amendment.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. Commissioner Dowdy
gave the invocation.
   The board voted to approve the Municipal Statement of Adoption of the
Amended Memorandum of Understanding Regarding the Rural Planning Organization
for Chatham, Lee, Moore and Orange Counties, following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Mayor Fields introduced Urban Planning Consultant Steve Davenport. Mr.
Davenport is responsible for presenting the proposed new Zoning and Subdivision
Ordinances.
   Over the course of the next couple of hours the Board of Commissioners and
the Planning Board reviewed the proposed ordinances. Some of the items that
were discussed were; the fencing requirements for the airport and gun shops,
the Administrative Section of the Ordinance, the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, and Design Standards. It was decided that the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance could be placed on the Agenda for the August Regular
Meeting for adoption.
   Mr. Davenport reviewed some of the main changes concerning the design
standards, remarking that the new ordinance is easier to use and more clear
concerning what a developer is responsible for. Mr. Davenport touched upon the
Historical District, stating that the ordinance sets up the mechanics for
regulation.
   Mr. Davenport also discussed Conditional Use Zoning, stating that
Conditional Use Zoning is basically a negotiated rezoning, with more
restrictions and less uses.
   There was much discussion concerning nonconforming situations as well as
penalties.
   It was decided to try and have another work session concerning the proposed
ordinances possibly on August 18 at 6 p.m. if the Planning Board and Board of
Commissioners could all be available.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 6:04 p.m.
_______________________          ______________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk    Ronnie Fields, Mayor
AUGUST 18, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 18, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday August 18, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Tom Stewart, and Robert Sullivan. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police
Captain Bart Davis, Police Officer Luke Yang, Police Officer Tracy Carter,
Auxiliary Police Officer Ryan Flowers, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis,
and Fire Chief Brain Tyner.
   Also in attendance were District Attorney Maureen Krueger, Rich Smith, Brent
Martin, Tim Allred, Lenai Davis and numerous members of the family of Police
Captain Bart Davis.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   After a moment of silence in honor of Commissioner Sherwood Lapping, Mayor
Fields gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Police Chief McKenzie spoke concerning Police Captain Bart Davis,
detailing his career with the Coast Guard and Law Enforcement. Chief McKenzie
remarked that the town is very appreciative of his strong work ethic and his
professionalism on the job. Chief McKenzie informed the board that Captain
Davis has been promoted to Police Major. The board congratulated Major Davis.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing on the request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation from Pamela R. McKinnon/Timothy Boyte at 7:10 p.m. Town
Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the property consists of 8.20 acres and is
located on Hwy 15-501 across from the current location of Dr. Boyte’s
Veterinary Hospital. The property was rezoned by the Board of Commissioners to
Highway Commercial District last month. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that
adjoining property owners had been mailed a notice of the Public Hearing. There
was no one to speak concerning the proposed annexation. Mayor Fields closed the
Public Hearing at 7:11 p.m.
   The board adopted the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town
of Carthage for the McKinnon/Boyte Non-Contiguous Annexation, following a
motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 21, 2008
      B.   Budget Amendment #1
      C.   Budget Transfers # A, #B, #C, #D, #E
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. The board
decided to have a joint Planning Board/Board of Commissioners Meeting to go
over the new proposed Zoning/Subdivision Ordinance either at 5:00 p.m. or 6:00
p.m. (which ever was more convenient for the Planning Board Members) on Monday
September 15, 2008.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage
for the McKinnon/Boyte Non-Contiguous Annexation had previously been passed.
      B.   Rich Smith of Oceanico and Brent Martin of Land Design presented the
new PUD plan for Little River. Rich Smith and Brent Martin both assisted each
other in highlighting the proposed preliminary new master plan for Little River
Golf Club. Rich Smith remarked that everything was within the requirements for
the PUD Zoning, and there would not have to be any requests for any zoning
changes. Rich Smith went on to detail that the entrances are being redesigned,
and the golf course is currently being redone. Brent Martin and Rich Smith
presented to the board a series of drawings depicting the concept for the “new
core”, which will be the center of activity for the property; with a new hotel
facility which will have retail shops, villas that will be an extension of the
hotel and a spa and lazy river. Additionally, there will be very large homes,
around 3600 sq. ft. that will be owned fractionally by eight different owners,
as well as a senior living area. The board reviewed the plans, with the
consensus being that the board was in acceptance of the new master plan.
      C.   The board adopted the NC Governor’s Highway Safety Program Local
Government Resolution for the matching grant for a police officer, following a
motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
      D.   The board adopted the NC Governor’s Highway Safety Program Local
Government Resolution for funding in the amount of $10,000.00, following a
motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. The grant is for Chief McKenzie to use for travel
expenses because he is designated as one of the Law Enforcement Liaisons, as
well as, purchase an in-car video camera system.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   Tim Allred of Allred’s Water Service addressed the board to discuss
the town’s bulk water rates, as well as, his bill he recently received in the
amount of $4056.00 for 207,400 gallons of water. Mr. Allred remarked he was
asking for relief from the bill he recently received. In addition, Mr. Allred
stated he wanted the town to revisit the rates for bulk water users, remarking
he can get the water at a lower rate in Robbins, Southern Pines, and Aberdeen.
Mayor Fields opened discussion concerning the bulk water rates, remarking he
felt the town needed to look into reducing them. Commissioner Stewart spoke,
stating that Mr.Allred was informed at the June meeting that the bulk rate was
the same as the out of town rate, which is two and a half times the in-town
rate. There was much discussion, with the board determining they required more
time to study this issue. They decided to table this issue and discuss it at
the next earliest meeting possible.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes of the
Planning Board Meeting August 7, 2008.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Fields brought attention to the matter of replacing the vacant seat on
the Board of Commissioners. There was some discussion concerning meeting before
the next regular meeting to review the applications. Commissioner Dowdy
remarked he would be back from his trip after the 8th of September. Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley inquired about the town municipal building being designated as an
emergency shelter. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied that Moore County
designates the shelters. Commissioner Dowdy asked about the siren downtown.
Fire Chief Brian Tyner remarked he was looking into a grant to help with that.
Mayor Fields asked about the paving on Pinecrest Street. Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis stated he was working on getting the paving done.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   There were none.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   None.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan.
_________________________         ______________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor   
SEPTEMBER 10, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 10, 2008
9:00 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Wednesday September 10, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal
Building.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Robert Sullivan, and Tom Stewart. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks and Town Clerk Melissa Adams.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the water rates and to
discuss the applicants for the vacant position on the Board of Commissioners.
   Mayor Fields opened the meeting at 9:05 a.m.
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
   Mayor Fields opened discussion concerning the bulk water rates and Allred
Water Service and the bill Mr. Allred received for 207,400 gallons used. There
was much discussion that followed, with Commissioner Stewart stating he felt
the town should not adjust the bill, or reduce the bulk water rates. Presently
the bulk water rate is two & one half times the in-town rate. Mayor Fields
stated he felt the bill should be adjusted, because Mr. Allred did not fully
understand how the bulk rate is calculated. Mayor Fields also felt that the
bulk water rates should be reduced. Commissioner Dowdy remarked he was in favor
of reducing the bill to the in-town rate.
   There was discussion concerning other bulk users in town. After much
discussion, the board agreed to reduce the water bill for 207,400 gallons for
Allred Water Service to the in-town rate; the second bill owed by Allred Water
Service will remain as is; and bulk rates would remain as they are, following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy, and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried. There was some discussion concerning the time frame in
which to allow Allred Water Service to pay the reduced bill, with the consensus
of the board being that the bill is currently past due and should be paid
immediately.
   There was additional discussion concerning the irrigation meter rate, which
is two & one half times the in-town rate. After some discussion the board voted
to reduce the irrigation rate back to the in-town rate, recalculate the bills
that have been mailed out, and have the Town Manager recommend increased
penalties for violations during draught conditions, followed by a motion made
by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley.
   Mayor Fields opened discussion concerning the applications received for the
vacancy on the Board of Commissioners. There was some brief discussion
concerning the various applicants.
   Mayor Fields remarked that the meeting called today was to go over the
interview process and to come up with questions for the applicants. There was
much discussion. The board went over several questions they would like to ask,
mainly expanding on the questions already asked on the application form; why do
they want to be appointed, do they feel they would have a conflict of interest,
what is their vision for Carthage, and do they feel they would be capable of
making their own decisions and standing their ground on an issue they feel
strongly about.
   After some discussion it was agreed to begin the interview process on
Tuesday September 23, 2008 at 9:00 a.m., if necessary an alternate date of
Monday September 29, 2008 was agreed upon. Each applicant will be interviewed
thirty minutes apart. Town Manager Carol Sparks is to prepare a list of
possible questions for the board to review, and to begin calling the applicants
to set up the interviews.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 10:25 a.m.
_____________________________         ____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 15, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 15, 2008
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday September 15, 2008 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Tom Stewart, and Robert Sullivan. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Assistant
Town Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Administrative
Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, Police Major Bart Davis, and Director of Public Works Rocky
Davis.
   Others present were Michael Campbell, Lisa Caddell, and John Chappell from
the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
   Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None. 
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting July 23, 2008
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 18, 2008
      C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting September 10, 2008
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks spoke concerning the letter from Moore County for interested
members to serve on the Aging Advisory Committee. Commissioner Dowdy inquired
about the problem with Pinecrest Street. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
informed the board that French drains are being installed and that due to the
excessive rain recently, the pavement fell apart. As soon as the weather
permits they will repair the street.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   The board voted to accept the bid for the Sewer Jet-Vac System from
Jet-Vac Sewer Equipment Company, Inc. for $120,000.00, following a motion made
by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis indicated he would like to
possibly purchase the remote control for the system for $1,400.00. It was
decided that if Finance Officer Linda Phillips could find money available in
Rocky’s budget he could purchase the remote control.
      B.   The board voted to adopt the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.   
      C.   After a brief discussion it was decided to appoint Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley as the voting delegate and Commissioner Stewart as the alternate delegate
for the NCLM Annual Conference Oct 12- 14, 2008.
      D.   After a brief discussion, it was decided to deny the request
from Stafford Land Company for variance on the impact fee payment requirements.
The consensus of the board was to keep the current policy as is.
      E.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart the board adopted
the Updated Plans & Policies Required for CDBG Grants. Commissioner Dowdy
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.  
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
None.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Dowdy commended the Public Works Department for their
outstanding work during the recent bad weather. Mayor Fields commended everyone
for their excellent work on updating the Disaster Plan recently.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell remarked about the recent meeting where the board changed the
irrigation rates, remarking that possibly the board may want to vote again on
this issue. Commissioner Stewart made a motion to lower the irrigation rates
from 2 ½ times the in-town rate, back to the in-town rate. Commissioner Dowdy
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   The board moved into a closed session at 7:27 p.m. following a motion made
by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board resumed their regular session at 7:45 p.m. There was no
action taken  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 7:45 p.m.
______________________________         ________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor 
SEPTEMBER 15, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
SPECIAL/JOINT MEETING
SEPTEMBER 15, 2008
5:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Town of Carthage
Planning Board held a Special/Joint Meeting on Monday September 15, 2008 at 5:
00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, Robert Sullivan, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A quorum.
   Planning Board Members present were Chairman Billy Salmon, Members Chris
Lassiter, Connie Burns, Vernon Kelly. A quorum. Max Muse arrived after the
meeting had begun.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk/Zoning
Administrator Melissa Adams, Finance Officer/Assistant Town Manager Linda
Phillips, Planning Consultant Steve Davenport, Reporter from the Pilot
Newspaper John Chappell, and concerned citizen Michael Campbell.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
   Mayor Fields welcomed Planning Consultant Steve Davenport.
   Mr. Davenport began by urging the board to begin the process of adopting the
new Zoning/Subdivision Ordinances as soon as practical. Mr. Davenport reviewed
items that were previously discussed at the last joint meeting; nonconformity,
procedures for rezoning, conditional use zoning, special use zoning,
violations, overlay districts, general standards, flood damage prevention
ordinance, site plans, subdivision standards, historic overlay district,
mapping, and street standards.
   Steve Davenport opened discussion concerning the time limit that the
Planning Board has to make a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners, once
an item has been presented to them. There was much discussion. Mayor Fields
stated he felt there should not be a time limit; however the Planning Board was
in favor of setting a 60 day time limit on items presented to them for
consideration. It was decided there would not be a time limit for the Board of
Commissioners, as they are the decision making body.
   Mr. Davenport moved on to discuss in detail the process of conditional use
zoning, remarking that this type of rezoning has much benefit, as the board can
enact enforceable conditions on the person asking for the rezoning.
   The Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board discussed various items
that had been brought up at the previous meeting; removing some items, and
changing others. Planning Board member Max Muse had some items he wanted
changed under permitted uses. It was decided that Max will make some notations
to his book and bring to the office on Wednesday. Town Manager Carol Sparks
stated she would make the changes and redistribute the affected pages to the
Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board. Mr. Davenport remarked that he
would come and go over the zoning ordinance, once the proposed changes were
made.
   Mayor Fields stated that the Planning Board can review the changes at their
Regular Meeting on October 2, 2008, and then the Board of Commissioners will
possibly set a Public Hearing date for adoption of the Zoning Ordinance.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 6:30 p.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
___________________________         ____________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 23, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 23, 2008
9:00 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Tuesday
September 23, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Board of Commissioner applicants; Artie Barber, Lisa Caddell, Bert Patrick, and
Michael Campbell.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to interview applicants for the
vacant Board of Commissioners position. The board had a list of prepared
questions for each applicant.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 9:12 a.m.
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
   The first applicant to be interviewed was Artie Barber. Mayor Fields
welcomed Mr. Barber and explained the interview process. The board members then
asked a series of questions. After the interview Mr. Barber remarked it was an
honor to be considered and thanked the board for their consideration.
   The board recessed the meeting at 9:20 a.m.
   The board reconvened the meeting at 10:00 a.m. The next applicant to be
interviewed was Lisa Caddell. Mayor Fields welcomed Mrs. Caddell and explained
the interview process. The board members asked a series of questions. After the
interview Mrs. Caddell thanked the board for their consideration.
   The board recessed at 10:25 a.m.
   The board reconvened at 10:30 a.m. The next applicant to be interviewed was
Bert Patrick. Mayor Fields welcomed Mrs. Patrick and explained the interview
process. The board proceeded to ask a series of questions. Following the
interview Mrs. Patrick thanked the board.
   The board began interviewing their final applicant for the day, Michael
Campbell at 11:00 a.m. Mayor Fields welcomed Mr. Campbell and explained the
interview process. The board then asked Mr. Campbell a series of questions.
Following the interview Mr. Campbell thanked the board.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 11:35 a.m., following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
__________________________         _________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 29, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 29, 2008
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
September 29, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A quorum. Commissioner Robert Sullivan
was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and
Board of Commissioner Applicants J.D. Monroe and Chris Lassiter.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to interview applicants for the
vacant Board of Commissioner position.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 8:30 a.m.
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
   Mayor Fields welcomed J.D. Monroe and explained the interview process. The
board members each asked a series of questions. Following the interview Mr.
Monroe thanked the board.
   The board recessed the meeting at 8:55.
   The board reconvened the meeting at 9:05 a.m.
   Mayor Fields welcomed Chris Lassiter and explained the interview process.
The board asked a series of questions. Following the interview Mr. Lassiter
thanked the board.
   The board discussed the various applicants. It was decided to have a Special
Meeting on Tuesday October 7, 2008 at 8:30 to discuss the applicants and
possibly make a decision on filling the vacancy.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 9:55 a.m.
____________________________         _________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
OCTOBER 7, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 7, 2008
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Tuesday
October 7, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, Robert Sullivan and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks and Assistant Manager/Finance
Officer Linda Phillips.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss applicants for the vacant
Board of Commissioner position and the TIF proposal from Little River.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 8:32 a.m.
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
   Mayor Fields opened the floor for discussion concerning the applicants for
the vacant board member seat. After much discussion from all board members
about filling the vacancy, Commissioner Sullivan made a motion to appoint Artie
Barber, which was seconded by Commissioner Dowdy and passed unanimously. Town
Manager Sparks is to notify the other candidates of the Board’s decision.
   Mayor Fields brought up the Tax Increment Financing which Little River had
presented to the Town for consideration. It was the consensus of the board that
now was not the time for the Town to go into any long term financing project.
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley made the motion not to go forward with the Tax Increment
Financing proposed by Little River but if Little River wanted to proceed with
the study, they could. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Sullivan and
passed unanimously. Town Manager Sparks is to notify Little River of the
Board’s decision.
   Commissioner Dowdy brought up the concerns of the citizens about the Town’s
water. It was decided that the Town could hold community meetings to update and
inform the citizens of the safety of the Town’s water. Town Manager Sparks is
to plan and set up these meetings.
   There being no other business, the meeting adjourned at 9:55 a.m. following
a motion by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy.
________________________________    _________________________
   Linda Phillips, Asst. Mgr./Finance Officer       Ronnie Fields, Mayor
OCTOBER 20, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 20, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday September 15, 2008 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Tom
Stewart, and Robert Sullivan. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Major Bart Davis, and Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Others present were Artie & Shannon Barber, Mrs. Charity Barber, Mr. Robert
Scalzi, Jim & Cindy Conway, Ken & Cathy Fraley, John “Bingo” Barringer, Clerk
of Court Catherine Graham, and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
    Commissioner Sullivan gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
APPOINTMENT OF NEW COMMISSIONER:
   Mayor Fields commented that the board had received applications from six
residents, and that it had not been an easy decision. Mayor Fields announced
the appointment of Artie Barber to the Board of Commissioners.
SWEARING IN CEREMONY: Clerk of Court Catherine Graham administered the Oath of
Office to newly appointed Commissioner Artie Barber. Mayor Fields and the Board
of Commissioners welcomed Commissioner Barber.
RECEPTION: The board recessed at 7:05 p.m. to have a brief reception in honor
of newly appointed Commissioner Barber. The board reconvened the regular
meeting at 7:17 p.m.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   David McKew from United Water gave an update on the water plant
operations, discussing the different types of testing done recently. Mr. McKew
handed out to the board members a preliminary laboratory report for water
testing done October 9, 2008. David McKew reported that the preliminary
laboratory tests for trihalomethanes (TTHM) and haloacetic (HAA5) acids show
that the town water is in compliance with state regulations. David McKew
addressed the list that the board had been given in their packets of entities
that have been non-compliant with (TTHM) and (HAA5) testing. Mr. McKew
discussed the similarities some of them have with Carthage. Mr. McKew discussed
the flushing of fire hydrants, as well as, reasons for non-compliance of the
testing for trihalomethanes in the past. Mr. McKew remarked that the state
keeps lowering the numbers allowed, and that the drought had contributed to the
results. Mayor Fields spoke concerning the meter readers and the trucks used
for meter reading not being identified. David McKew remarked that he would
ensure that the meter readers and the vehicles are identified. The board
thanked Mr. McKew for his report.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING: None. 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA 
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting September 15, 2008
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 15, 2008
      C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting September 23, 2008
      D.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting September 29, 2008
      E.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting October 7, 2008
      F.   Budget Amendment #2, #3
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT 
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks brought attention to the Town Christmas Party, remarking that due
to the economic situation, the consensus of the Department Heads was to forgo
the party this year. After a brief discussion, it was decided the town would
have the Christmas party on the usual date; the first Friday in December.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.    Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart the board voted to
adopt the Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate-Robert C. Scalzi and Jeniss
E. King Request for Non-Contiguous Annexation. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      B.   The board approved the Certificate of Sufficiency – Robert C.Scalzi
& Jeniss E. King for non-contiguous annexation, following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      C.   The board adopted the Resolution Fixing Hearing on Question of Non-
Contiguous Annexation Request from Robert C. Scalzi & Jeniss E. King, following
a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.   
      D.   The board set the Public Hearing date for adoption of the new Zoning
Ordinance Monday November 17, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
      E.   The board adopted the Moore County Animal Control Ordinance by
reference following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      F.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart the board voted to
adopt the Water/Sewer Utility Identity Theft Prevention Program. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
      G. The board appointed Commissioner Stewart as an authorized check
signer.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None. 
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board met October 2, 2008, a copy of the minutes are attached,
which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Artie Barber communicated that it was an honor and a privilege
to be able to serve as a Commissioner for the town. Mayor Fields and
Commissioners Stewart, Dowdy, and Sullivan joined in welcoming Commissioner
Barber to the board. Mayor Fields spoke concerning a water bill complaint
received from Amy Mackey. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked it had been taken
care of and Ms. Mackey had been notified that her bill had been adjusted.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Jim Conway inquired about generators at the water plant. David McKew
informed him that the water plant does have a generator. Mr. Conway remarked
that he and some of the residents of Cabin Branch Subdivision would like to
take a tour at the water plant. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated to let her
know when and she would arrange a tour. Additionally Mr. and Mrs. Conway both
spoke concerning the traffic problems at the entrance to Cabin Branch due to
New Century Middle School, remarking that the traffic problems have improved
significantly. Lastly, Mr. Conway inquired about who was responsible for the
road markings on Hwy 15-501. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed him that was a
state maintained highway and that he would need to call the DOT office. John
Chappell commented on the lighting standards in the new Zoning Ordinance, and
remarked about the upcoming Star Party. Mr. Robert Scalzi commented on what a
pleasure it has been working with Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa
Adams, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis in his endeavor to have his
property annexed into the town limits. Town Manager Carol Sparks gave
recognition to Town Clerk Melissa Adams and Administrative Assistant/Deputy
Clerk Karen O’Hara for the planning of the reception for Commissioner Barber.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   None.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:15 p.m.   
_______________________            _______________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
NOVEMBER 17, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 17, 2008
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday November 17, 2008 at 7:00 p.m.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Robert Sullivan, Milton T.
Dowdy, Jr., Tom Stewart, and Artie Barber. A quorum. Commissioner Riley was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Finance
Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen
O’Hara, and Town Clerk Melissa Adams.
   Also attending the meeting were Starla Hughes, CPA from Sharrard, McGee &
Co., P.A., Debra Stringer, Robert Scalzi, Donald Justin, and from the Pilot
newspaper reporter John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
   Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Starla Hughes, CPA Sharrard, McGee & Co., P.A. gave the presentation
of the 2007 – 2008 Audit, copy attached, which is and does become part of these
minutes.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.    Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing on the request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation from Robert C. Scalzi & Jeniss E. King at 7:16 p.m. Town
Manager Carol Sparks remarked that notice of the Public Hearing had been mailed
to adjoining property owners. There was no opposition to the proposed
annexation. Mr. Scalzi was in attendance. Mayor Fields closed the Public
Hearing at 7:17 p.m.
      B.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing on adoption of the New
Development/Subdivision Ordinance and Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance at 7:17
p.m. After a brief discussion concerning the new Ordinances, and some of the
changes that had been made, Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at 7:20
p.m. 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 20, 2008
      B.   Budget Amendment #4, #5, #6
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   After a brief discussion concerning the replacement of Commissioner
Lapping as the elected official representing Carthage with the Triangle Area
Planning Organization (TARPO), the consensus of the board was to have
Commissioner Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. represent Carthage.
      B.   Donald Justin spoke to the board concerning a Zoning Ordinance
change. Recently he had spoken to Town Manager Carol Sparks concerning opening
an Irish Pub in the Sinclair building. Presently the Central Business District
does not permit a bar or pub. The Planning Board has recommended that the
zoning remain as is, and not to permit bars in the Central Business District.
Mr. Justin had also indicated to Town Manager Carol Sparks that he intended to
have a pool table in his Pub. The Town of Carthage Game Room Ordinance defines
“game room” as any place of business containing one or more billiard or pool
tables or five or more video or other electronic games or other paid devices or
tables for which charge is made either directly or indirectly. Mr. Justin
remarked that he is looking at another location as well, 3773 Hwy 15-501 where
the old White Horse Restaurant was located. Mayor Fields remarked that his
establishment would be permitted at that location, but not at the Sinclair
Building. A brief discussion followed. Commissioner Stewart asked Town Manager
Carol Sparks to clarify the definition of “game room”, specifically the
statement of charging indirectly.
      C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Sullivan, the board voted to adopt the Non-Contiguous Annexation
Ordinance for Robert C. Scalzi & Jeniss E. King. All ayes. Motion carried.  
      D.   The board voted to adopt the New Zoning Ordinance following a motion
made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes.
Motion carried.
      E.   The board voted to cancel the December Regular Meeting following a
motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None. 
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
      A.   The Planning Board met on November 6, 2008, a copy of the minutes
are attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Fields remarked he would like to wish everyone Happy Holidays.
Commissioner Sullivan reported that Carthage United Methodist Church is hosting
a Thanksgiving dinner at the Rescue Squad building on November 22, 2008.
   Mayor Fields asked about the town newsletter. Town Manager Carol Sparks
remarked she will be sending out a newsletter before Christmas.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell informed the board that representatives from China will be in
Moore County the week of November 24, 2008.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   None.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 7:40 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_________________________      ______________________
     Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Ronnie Fields, Mayor 
NOVEMBER 17, 2008
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 17, 2008
5:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
November 17, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. at the Carthage Water Plant located at 400 Vass
Carthage Road.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Tom Stewart, Milton T.
Dowdy, Jr., Robert Sullivan, and Artie Barber. A quorum. Commissioner Riley was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Clerk Melissa Adams, and David McKew of United Water.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was for the board members to tour the
water plant. David McKew began the tour of the plant. The tour took
approximately one hour.
   Meeting was adjourned at 6:35 p.m.
________________________            _______________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor
2009 Meeting Minutes
FEBRUARY 16, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
FEBRUARY 16, 2009
3:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Monday February 16, 2009 at 3:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building
located at 203 McReynolds Street in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, Milton “T” Dowdy, Jr., Robert Sullivan, and Artie Barber. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Tim Emmert, Moore County Community Development Planner was also in
attendance later in the meeting.
   The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2009 –
2010 budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   DISCUSSION OF FY 2009 – 2010 BUDGET:
   The board reviewed the following items; budget/fund balance summary, the
outstanding debt as of June 2009, the current fee and rate schedule and
proposed additional revenues as well as increased expenditures. Town Manager
Carol Sparks highlighted that with the new contract with American Tower, the
town will see an increase of $16,391.16 per year. There was some discussion
concerning the proposed increase by Moore County to the sewer rate. The board
discussed the feasibility of running sewer lines to Robbins. Some discussion
followed. Commissioner Dowdy opened discussion concerning the possibility of
the town building a sewer treatment plant. After a brief discussion, it was
decided that Town Manager Carol Sparks and Finance Officer Linda Phillips would
figure various increases to the sewer rate for the board to review. After a
brief discussion concerning the CPI increase for Allied Waste and United Water,
Mayor Fields asked Town Manager Carol Sparks to review the contract with Allied
Waste to see if the town put a cap on the percentage the CPI could be
increased. Town Manager Carol Sparks reiterated a budget message sent to all
Department Heads concerning how much she appreciated everyone in their
dedication to the town with the preparation of the new budget for FY 2009 –
2010, especially during difficult financial times. Next, the board was informed
the budget for FY 2009 – 2010 for the Public Works Department would not be
increased from the FY 2008 – 2009 budget. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
spoke concerning several items he had been asked about getting quotes for; a
new sound system for the meeting room for a cost of $7300, which he reported he
has the funds for right now in building maintenance; a new furnace at the old
Town Hall at a proposed cost of between $6500 and $9500, which he reported we
have the money to cover the cost of this as well; a snow plow at a cost of
$5089; a camera system to look into the water and sewer lines at a cost of
$19,500; and finally the cost to take down and remove both water storage tanks
uptown would run approximately $82,500.00. The board discussed the proposed
projects referenced on page 49 for water improvements. Commissioner Dowdy
brought attention to Michael Quick and the project to relocate his water line
and water meter, remarking that it is time for something to happen very soon
concerning this matter. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley asked about moving the siren to the
new water tank. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis remarked that the cost to
just move the siren would be approximately $3500 but could make the town very
liable because the town is so spread out and in moving the siren it would not
be heard all over. Next the board discussed the proposed Fire Department
budget. Chief Brian Tyner remarked that his proposed budget would remain
unchanged from this year. Police Chief Chris McKenzie went over his proposed
budget, with only a few changes to it from this his budget for FY 2008 – 2009.
Chief McKenzie reported a significant decrease in capital outlay for patrol
cars and a small increase to the line item for the police dog. Commissioner
Stewart pointed out several typos to the line items for maintenance and repairs
and criminal investigations. Chief McKenzie reported he may be able to apply
for a block grant for new rifles for the police department as well as, new
protective vests. Mayor Fields stated he wanted to express his appreciation to
everyone for all their hard work on the proposed FY 2009 – 2010 budget. Mayor
Fields asked Town Manager Carol Sparks and Finance Officer Linda Phillips to
come up with figures for proposed employee salary increases in the amounts of
3%, 4%, and 5% for the board to review. The board then took a break at 3:57
p.m. The board reconvened the Budget Workshop at 4:05 p.m. Town Manager Carol
Sparks introduced Tim Emmert, Community Development Planner for Moore County.
Mr. Emmert came to present an overview concerning the housing component of his
job, with an emphasis on the need for affordable “work force housing” in Moore
County. Mr. Emmert addressed the board remarking that he is currently working
with the Moore County Chamber, Partners in Progress, Sandhills Community
College and several State organizations to promote the building of affordable
housing in the range of $100,000 to $150,000. Mr. Emmert remarked he would like
to work with the town to offer builders incentives to build affordable housing
as well as ways to protect the town’s interests. There was a brief discussion
concerning this topic. Mayor Fields thanked Mr. Emmert for coming to speak to
the board.  Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 5:00 p.m.
_______________________          ________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, CMC Town Clerk   Ronnie Fields, Mayor
MARCH 16, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 16, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday March 16, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/Finance
Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Administrative Assistant/
Deputy Clerk Karen O’Hara, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie,
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Officer Travis Baker, Firefighters
Rachael Phillips, and Brian Whitaker.
   Others present were David and Mary Lou Coffey, Jonathan Williams, Mark
Phillips, and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
      A.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie presented Police Officer Travis Baker
with the “Police Officer of the Year” award. Everyone congratulated Officer
Baker.
   Mayor Fields called for a motion on the item of the Fire Department going to
24/7 coverage. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to allow the Fire Department to
go to 24/7 coverage for a trail period of three months, they are to keep all
statistics on calls and at the end of the three months report back to the
board. Commissioner Sullivan seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m. to hear a
request for rezoning from Jonathan Williams who lives at 105 Vass Carthage Road
from R-10 “Residential 10,000 sq. ft. lots” to B-2 “Central Business District
Fringe”. Mr. Williams addressed the board remarking that he would like to have
his property rezoned from R-10 to B-2 and that the property in front of his
house with the exception of Mrs. Patterson’s property is zoned B-2. Town
Manager Carol Sparks informed Mr. Williams that if it was to be rezoned, he
would be required to have Moore County inspect the property because of the
change in occupancy. Mr. Williams explained that they would like to have a
large attorney group rent the property. Mr. Williams also indicated the
possibility of having foster care located at the home. Ms. Deb Patterson spoke
remarking that she was representing her mother Hallie Patterson. Ms. Patterson
stated she was concerned about what could be placed there in the future if it
was rezoned. Ms. Patterson remarked that her mother has lived at her home for a
long time and she intends to remain in her home the rest of her life. Ms.
Patterson indicated she was worried for her well being if the property were to
be rezoned. Mr. Williams remarked that there is a (4) four foot security fence
separating his and Mrs. Patterson’s property. Furthermore, Mr. Williams stated
he has owned and managed much rental property and he would never allow any
impropriety at any of his rental properties. Mr. Williams remarked that he
tends to micro-manage his rental properties. Mayor Fields asked if Mrs.
Patterson and her daughter and Mr. Williams would like to adjourn to the other
room to discuss the situation. Mayor Fields adjourned the Public Hearing at 7:
21 p.m.
      B.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing at 7:22 p.m to hear a request
for a variance from David Coffey residing at 210 Poplar Street. Mr. Coffey
requests a variance for the side set back requirement from (15’) fifteen feet
to approximately (6’) feet in order to build an addition. Mr. Coffey spoke
remarking that he and his wife would like to remain in Carthage, but because of
the combining of two families, they needed more room in their house. Mr. Coffey
remarked that with the proposed addition there would still be approximately
(56’) fifty six feet to the adjoining house on the left. Commissioner Dowdy
inquired if there was another way to build the addition. Mr. Coffey explained
that the contractor has stated this is the best way; there is really no way to
get a garage around to the back of the house. John Chappell stated he was in
favor of the request for a variance. Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at
7:25 p.m.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 16, 2009
      B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 16, 2009
      C.   Budget Amendments #11, #12
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.  
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
      A.   Mr. Williams reported that he and the Pattersons were unable to come
to an agreement concerning the rezoning. The board decided to deny the request
from Jonathan Williams to rezone 105 Vass Carthage Road from R-10 to B-
2 following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
      B.   The board decided to approve the request for a variance for David G.
Coffey of the side set back requirements from (15’) fifteen feet to (6’) six
feet, based on the following findings: (1) that there were practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance; (2)
the variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the ordinance
and preserves its spirit; and (3) with the granting of the variance the public
safety and welfare have been assured and substantial justice has been done,
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C.   The board approved the Town of Carthage/Moore County Fire Code
Enforcement Agreement following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and
seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
      D.   The board adopted the Resolution by Governing Body of Applicant for
Economic Federal Stimulus Money following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart
and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS
      A.   Because it would be problematic for Commissioner Barber, the
board decided to keep the time of the regular meeting at 7:00 p.m. following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy, seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes.
Motion carried.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
      A.   The Planning Board met on March 5, 2009, a copy of the minutes are
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.   
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Dowdy commended Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and his
Public Works crew for the quick response in moving the water line for Mr.
Quick.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   David Coffey spoke concerning the Buggy Festival, remarking that he felt the
committee should take half of the money earned from the festival towards
putting a permanent buggy monument up at the Courthouse. Mr. Coffey stated he
felt we are missing out on a marketing strategy by not having a nice buggy and
horse sculpture located at the Courthouse for a tourist attraction.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
   None.  
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 7:49 p.m.   
_______________________            __________________________
   Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
APRIL 20, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 20, 2009
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
April 20, 2009 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 203 McReynolds
Street in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, Robert Sullivan, and Tom Stewart. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley
was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and Director
of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Also in attendance were Patrick Coughlin from the Moore County Chamber, Ken
Lewis Chairman of the Government Affairs Committee, and John Chappell from the
Pilot newspaper.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was for the Moore County Chamber of
Commerce to address the board.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 6:40 p.m.
   Patrick Coughlin, the Chamber Executive Director spoke concerning how the
Chamber began reaching out to towns a couple of years ago to inquire about what
types of projects they could offer assistance for and to let the towns know
that they are there to assist in any way they can.
   Mr. Coughlin addressed the recent events at Pinelake, remarking that his
thoughts and prayers were with all who were touched by the tragedy. Mr.
Coughlin informed the board that there will be an Emergency Planning Summit the
end of May. Mr. Coughlin explained that most of the time small businesses do
not have an emergency plan and are unprepared to handle various emergencies.
   Mr. Ken Lewis addressed the board, remarking that the Chamber would like to
hear what they can do for the town. Mayor Fields remarked that attracting more
business to open in town is what is needed. Mayor Fields indicated he felt the
Emergency Planning Summit is a great idea.
   Mayor Fields inquired as to whether the Chamber may be able to assist in
funding for booklets for lockdown procedures for a private school. Patrick
Coughlin replied that the Chamber may be able to assist in getting supplies
donated.
   Commissioner Dowdy asked about incentives to bring more manufacturing
businesses to town. Mr. Coughlin stated that most of the time it is the
counties and the towns that offer the incentives. Mr. Coughlin remarked that
the Carthage Fabric building will probably sell quickly once it becomes
available.
   Mayor Fields thanked both Mr. Coughlin and Mr. Lewis for speaking with the
board.
   Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 7:00 p.m.
_____________________            _________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
APRIL 20, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 20, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday April 20, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Tom Stewart, Milton T. Dowdy. Jr. and Robert Sullivan. A full
board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Public Works
Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief Brian Tyner,
Carthage Historical Committee Members Carol Steed, Helen Mohan, and Bert
Patrick.
   Concerned citizens present were Debra Stringer, Chiropractor Dr. Sharon
Wright, and John Chappell from the Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Dr. Sharon Wright introduced herself to the board, remarking that she is a
Chiropractor and has recently moved into an office in the Curves building. The
Mayor and the board welcomed her to town.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting March 16, 2009
   B.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 16, 2009
   C.    Budget Amendments #13, #14, #15
   D.    Proclamation Municipal Clerks Week May 3 through May 9, 2009
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.  
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A. Bert Patrick of the Carthage Historical Committee addressed the board
concerning the upcoming unveiling of the James Rogers McConnell highway marker
to be held on Memorial Day May 25, 2009 beginning at 2:00 p.m. Bert passed out
invitations to all the board members. Bert informed the board she was here to
ask the board to proclaim May 25, 2009 James Rogers McConnell Day. The board
voted to have a Proclamation done for James Rogers McConnell Day and add to the
May board agenda, following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B. The board adopted the Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate James &
Karen McKenzie Request for Non-Contiguous Annexation following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C. The board approved the  Certificate of Sufficiency for James &
Karen McKenzie Non-Contiguous Annexation following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   D. The board approved the Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing on
Question of Non-Contiguous Annexation Request from James & Karen McKenzie
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in April.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy reported that beginning May 15, 2009 Manna will begin
serving food once a week at John Hall Presbyterian Church to anyone wishing to
partake. Commissioner Dowdy commended Police Chief Chris McKenzie for his
professionalism handling recent events with the tragedy at Pinelake. Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley commented that everyone was very proud of how everything was handled.
Mayor Fields stated that the Fire Department and Emergency Medical Services and
all who were involved with the tragedy, were to be commended as well. Mayor
Fields announced that there will be a dedication of the Amphitheater to
Commissioner Sherwood Lapping on Friday May 8, 2009 at 6:30 p.m.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Debra Stringer inquired about the recent activity taking place at Savannah
Gardens. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis replied that Ron Jackson is
complying with wetland requirements, and everything he is doing has been
approved. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked how good the cemetery looks after
all the dead trees and bushes have been removed. After a brief discussion
concerning the cemetery, the board voted to allow Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis to put up a sign at the cemetery, that no more vegetation should be
planted, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy, and seconded by
Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 7:30 p.m. to discuss personnel
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried. The
board moved back into regular session at 9:04 p.m. Mayor Fields remarked there
was no action to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 9:05 p.m.
_____________________            _____________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor 
MAY 18, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 18, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday May 18, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Tom Stewart, and Artie Barber. A full
board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, and Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis.
   Concerned citizens present were Helen Mohan, Carol Steed, Charles, Prevost,
Rita Booth, Roland Gilliam, and James & Karen McKenzie.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Sullivan gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing to hear a request from James and Karen
McKenzie for a Non-Contiguous Annexation at 7:02 p.m. James and Karen McKenzie
live on Hwy 22 beside the driveway to Green Haven Nursery. The notice for the
Public Hearing has been advertised and notices were mailed to adjoining
property owners. Karen McKenzie stated she needs to connect to town water in
order to expand her daycare business. Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at
7:03 pm.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting April 20, 2009
   B.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 20, 2009
   C.    Budget Amendments #16, & #17
   D.    Proclamation James Rogers McConnell Day May 25, 2009
Mayor Fields presented the Proclamation for James Rogers McConnell to Charles
Prevost and other members of the Historical Society.
VII.    TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.    NEW BUSINESS
   A. The board voted to adopt the Non-Contiguous Annexation Ordinance for
James and Karen McKenzie following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   B. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion for the town to participate in the 2009
CDBG Scattered Housing Program sponsored by Moore County, seconded by
Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C. The board adopted the Resolution Opposing Senate Bill 1001, Identical
House Bill 881, and Senate Bill 758 following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D. Following some discussion, Commissioner Stewart made a motion to set the
date for the Budget Workshop for Monday June 8, 2009 at 7:00 p.m., seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in May
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy remarked he will be out of town the weekend before the June
Regular Meeting; however he anticipates returning that Monday. Commissioner
Dowdy stated that the MANNA lunch program at John Hall Presbyterian Church is a
great success, and that they appreciate the town putting the notice on the
water bills.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell reported that his 8 th wedding anniversary is tomorrow. Charles
Prevost announced everyone was invited to the dedication ceremony for the James
Rogers McConnell State Highway Marker on Monday May 25, 2009 at 2:00 p.m.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. Meeting
adjourned at 7:20 p.m.
_________________________         ______________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk Ronnie Fields, Mayor
JUNE 8, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JUNE 8, 2009
5:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday
June 8, 2009 at 5:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 203 McReynolds
Street in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, and Tom Stewart. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/Assistant
Town Manager Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the proposed AT&T contract
and to hold a Budget Workshop.
   Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 5:10 p.m. Commissioner Dowdy
gave the invocation. Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the Pledge
of Allegiance.
   The board began discussion concerning the proposed contract with AT&T for
the renewal of the lease at the water plant. They have agreed to increase the
rent to $2,250/month beginning July 1, 2009. The original lease was for twenty
(20) years, the new term would be for five (5) years with an additional five
(5) year renewal at the end of that time. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported
that Town Attorney Doug Gill has reviewed said contract and indicated it was
fine to execute. After some discussion, Commissioner Sullivan made a motion to
approve the lease agreement with AT&T, adding that a CPI Consumer Price
Increase be added in five (5) years. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded. Much
discussion ensued concerning the wording in the proposed contract, with Mayor
Fields remarking that he would prefer to wait until there was clarification on
the site agreement from January of 1999. Discussion followed. Commissioner
Sullivan rescinded his motion, and Mayor Pro-Tem Riley rescinded her second. It
was decided to table the proposed contract with AT&T in order for Town Manager
Carol Sparks to get clarification concerning the site agreement from January of
1999 before the contract would be approved, following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Next the board reviewed the proposed FY 2009 – 2010 Budget, going over the
tax valuation, the Fire District tax valuation as well as the various revenues
and expenditures. Commissioner Stewart asked about the increase in the Fire
Department budget to the line item for uniforms. Fire Chief Brian Tyner
explained that the increase is due to new requirements concerning the uniforms,
as well as having an increased number of part-time employees.
Finance Officer Linda Phillips went over the highlights of the proposed budget,
remarking that this is the final year of the police position through the
Governor’s Highway Safety Program. The first position is now funded with 100%
of town funds. The second position, the town will pay 50% from July to
September, and 100% the remainder of the budget year.
Finance Officer Linda Phillips reported that the increase to the contracted
garbage collection was due to the (CPI) Consumer Price Index, of 5%.
Additionally, Linda reported there was a fund balance appropriation of $6,678
for the General Fund.
The board reviewed the revenues and expenditures in the Powell Bill Fund, with
a fund balance appropriation of $20,700. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the
board this did not include the work for Pinecrest Street.
The sewer availability fee will be increased from $12 to $14 a month, and the
sewer rate will from $.0057 per gallon to $.0063 per gallon to cover the
increased cost from Moore County. There was some discussion concerning the
sewer lift station at Little River.
Commissioner Dowdy inquired about the employee salaries. Town Manager Carol
Sparks informed the board most towns are doing a nominal cost of living
increase, and no merit increases. There was a brief discussion concerning merit
pay increase, with the general consensus of the board being that they were not
in favor of merit increases. After a brief discussion, Commissioner Dowdy made
a motion to include a cost of living increase for all employees of 2% in the
proposed FY 2009 – 2010 Budget. Commissioner Sullivan seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried. This would require an additional fund balance appropriation.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks opened discussion concerning the present policy
concerning the water and sewer impact fees. Carol reported that Bob Stafford
was ready to begin work on two houses in Phase II of Cabin Branch Subdivision,
and he is unable to pay the entire amount of the water impact fees all at once.
Town Manager Carol Sparks explained he has asked for consideration from the
board to begin on two houses and be allowed to make four payments in the amount
of $5,000 each, which would equal to the total balance he would owe for the
water impact fees. After much discussion concerning this issue it was decided
to deny Mr. Stafford’s request.
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 6:05 p.m.
__________________________         __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
JUNE 15, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 15, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday June 15, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Tom Stewart, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber. A quorum. Commissioner
Sullivan was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Finance Officer/ Assistant
Town Manager Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant Karen
O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Fire Chief
Brian Tyner, Police Corporal Justin Garner, Police Officer Luke Lang, Police
Sergeant John Gibbons, and Director of Public Works Director Rocky Davis.
   Concerned citizens present were Lee Bolerjack, Robert Pearson, Beth & Larry
McNeely, and numerous family members of Corporal Justin Garner.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    For his heroic actions at Pinelake on March 29, 2009,  Police Chief
McKenzie presented the Carthage Police Department Medal of Valor and the
Carthage Police Department Purple Heart to Corporal Justin Garner. Every one
congratulated Corporal Garner.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.    Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing for the FY 2009 – 2010
Budget at 7:06 p.m. Town Manager Carol Sparks went over the highlights of the
proposed budget, remarking that the over all budget is $3,019,579.00 and
includes a 2% cost of living increase for all employees. Town Manager Carol
Sparks stated that the tax rate will remain the same as last year at $ .40 per
$100.00 of valuation. Mayor Fields noted that the tax rate has remained the
same for several years and has even been decreased in past year’s budgets.
Mayor Fields asked if there was anyone in the audience that would like to speak
concerning the proposed budget. There was not. Mayor Fields closed the Public
Hearing at 7:10 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 18, 2009
   B.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 8, 2009
   C.   Budget Amendments #18, #19
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A. Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to adopt the FY 2009 – 2010 Budget
Ordinance, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   B. After a brief explanation from Town Clerk Melissa Adams, the board voted
to adopt the Resolution of Intent for the National Flood Insurance Program,
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C. The board voted to reappoint Connie Burns, and Chris Lassiter for another
three year term on the Planning Board, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D. The board voted to approve the Town of Southern Pines Sewer Easement
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E. After a brief discussion, the board voted to adopt the Resolution
Accepting and Endorsing the 2009 Moore County Solid Waste Management Plan,
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.    Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved the proposed AT&T Contract as presented.
All ayes. Motion carried.  
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in June. 
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy inquired about letters to DOT from the Town concerning the
proposed 24/27 Bypass. Town Manager Carol Sparks is to get copies of any
correspondence about the proposed bypass to the board for review. Commissioner
Dowdy acknowledged that he knew that the cost of living increase in the
proposed FY 2009-2010 budget is not sufficient for all the hard work the
employees do .
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Business owner Lee Bolerjack addressed the board concerning his auto repair
business, which had been located at 102/104 S. McNeill Street. The auto repair
shop is not permitted in the Central Business District and he was sent a letter
informing him he must cease his business activity at that location. Mr.
Bolerjack stated he had come in April 2, 2009 to change his water account,
trash service and business license and spoke to Town Manager Carol Sparks and
was given permission to operate his business at that time. Mr. Bolerjack
remarked that Town Manager Carol Sparks was the only person in the office at
the time he came in. Mr. Bolerjack remarked he was here to ask for permission
to continue his business while applying for a Zoning Text Amendment in order to
be allowed to operate his auto repair business at that location. Mayor Fields
replied that the business was not permitted, therefore, he could not continue
to operate his business. Furthermore, Mayor Fields informed Mr. Bolerjack that
he would need to apply for the proper amendment to the zoning. Mr. Bolerjack
remarked that he has sent in the paper work to apply for the amendment to the
zoning. Town Clerk Melissa Adams reported that she has not received his
application. Mr. Bolerjack stated that he has mailed the application and that
we should be receiving it soon.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
The board went into a closed session at 7:35 p.m. to discuss legal matters
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  The
board resumed their regular session at 8:04 p.m. Mayor Fields remarked that
there was no action to be taken.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:05 p.m.
___________________________         ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor   
JULY 20, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 20, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their Regular Meeting on Monday
July 20, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Robert Sullivan, Artie Barber, and Tom Stewart. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis,
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and Police Officer Travis
Baker.
   Concerned citizens present were Reverend Tom Herndon, Roland Gilliam,
Richard Edelman, Lee Bolerjack, and reporter from the Pilot Newspaper John
Chappell. Numerous citizens were present to speak concerning the Moore County
proposed Detention Center expansion.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Reverend Tom Herndon of the First Baptist Church of Carthage gave the
invocation.  
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
Mayor Fields remarked that due to the amount of citizens signed up to speak
during the public comment period, this item would be moved to the beginning of
the agenda.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Larry McNeely who resides at 610 Parks St. stated that he felt that the
proposed location for the detention center expansion was not a good location.
Mr. McNeely also stated that he had heard that the Moore County Library will be
torn down. Mr. McNeely remarked that he was fortunate to have gone to a school
were he felt safe. Beth McNeely who resides at 610 Parks St. spoke, remarking
that her Mother & Father were raised here and that she is totally opposed to
the expansion of the detention center. Ms. McNeely remarked that she felt it
would not help the town. Bert Patrick who resides at 702 Sunset St. stated that
she is a member of the Historical Committee and that she holds great value in
the historical significance of the town. Ms. Patrick went on to state that the
proposed detention center would house over 600 detainees, that it will be very
large and an insult to our town. Ms. Patrick remarked that other towns had been
shown respect by their County Commissioners by locating their detention centers
away from the downtown area. Mr. David Craft who resides at 525 Niagara
Carthage Rd. and is a Real Estate Agent spoke in reference to the outstanding
cooperation and help he receives from Town Manager Carol Sparks and Town Clerk
Melissa Adams. Rita Booth who resides at 303 Martin St. remarked that she would
like to see the number of beds in the proposed detention center limited. Ms.
Booth stated that when she moved here years ago, she was told this was to be
the next Southern Pines. Ms. Booth stated she has a young daughter and would
like to see the look and character of the downtown area maintained. Bob
Boardman residing at 240 Heidi Rd. stated that he worked at a prison in
Massachusetts and that he feels that over 600 beds will constitute a prison and
the whole center of town will be destroyed. Mr. Boardman remarked he does not
want the detention center here when there are plenty of other areas where it
could be located. Maris Riley residing at 818 McNeill St. remarked he was
concerned about the location of the proposed detention center and how close it
is to the school, playground and ball field. Mr. Riley stated that he feels as
though the detention center is like the movie Field of Dreams, “if you build it
they will come”. Elizabeth Riley, residing at 818 McNeill St. passed around a
picture of her children , remarking that she and her family had moved here from
Carthage, Texas. Ms. Riley spoke concerning the close proximity of the
detention center to the school, stating that if it is expanded she will move.
Libby Moodie, residing at 106 N. McNeill St. addressed the board stating that
she was very sad about the situation. Ms. Moodie stated that she moved here
from Charlotte and she and her husband bought an old historic home that was in
horrible shape and completely renovated it. Ms. Moodie stated that when she
heard about the proposed detention center it took her by surprise. Ms. Moodie
also spoke on behalf of Lee Bolerjack, remarking that she feels the town should
look after the downtown merchants, the historical district and the children
that live in the town. Victoria Botson, residing at 205 Barrett St. informed
the board that she has three children and she is a military wife. Ms. Botson
remarked that she is completely against the detention center, that it will ruin
the antiquity of the town and the board should be ashamed of themselves for
putting the town’s children in danger. Ms. Botson went on to state that if it
is built she will not stay in Carthage and she will not vote for any of the
board members. Reverend Tom Herndon, residing at 603 Edgehill Parkway spoke
concerning the proposed Zoning Text Amendment to make auto repair businesses a
Conditional Use in the Central Business District, stating that he never told
Mr. Bolerjack that the Baptist Church was all right with him moving his
business into the old fire station. Reverend Herndon told the board that the
church had experienced the noise of hearing someone revving the engines on
motorcycles and someone had been placing notes on church member’s cars telling
them not to park in front of the old fire station. Reverend Herndon went on to
explain that the church had a lot of concerns regarding Mr. Bolerjack’s
business. Steve Moodie residing at 106 N. McNeill St. spoke against the
detention center, stating that he feels that it will lower property values.
Major Killian residing at 606 McReynolds St. stated that he was against the
detention center. Shauna Smith residing at 703 McReynolds St. remarked that she
had reviewed the town development ordinance. Ms. Smith commented that the
detention center does not fit the description of the Central Business District.
Ms. Smith stated that Carthage is a lovely town and if the detention center is
built the town will not grow. Ms. Smith informed the board she had a buyer for
her house but she had to tell him about the proposed detention center and now
he wants to rent with the option to buy. Thomas Lockheart residing at 208 Dowd
St. stated he did not want to live so close to the detention center. Mr.
Lockhart remarked he did not understand why they can not locate it somewhere
away from the center of town. Mr. Lockhart stated that he felt that a 500-800
bed facility constitutes a prison. Captain Eddie Johnson from the Moore County
Sheriff’s Department addressed the audience with rough drawings of what the
proposed detention center may look like. Captain Johnson gave an overview of
the proposed facility remarking that the proposed new facility will have only
192 new beds and incorporate 68 of the old beds in the building. Captain
Johnson replied to one of the comments concerning other detention centers being
moved away from downtown areas, remarking that they moved away from the
downtown because they did not have the room to expand. Captain Johnson went on
to impress upon the audience that the proposed detention center will not house
federal or state inmates. Captain Johnson tried to respond to citizen
questions, however the crowd interrupted several times and there was talking
among the audience. Mayor Fields called for order several times. Mayor Fields
stated that he will try to set up a public meeting with the architects so that
citizen concerns can be addressed. Mayor Fields thanked all who spoke for their
comments.  
VI.   PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.    Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing at 8:07 p.m on the request for
a Zoning Text Amendment from Lee Bolerjack & Richard Edelman to change Auto
Repair Services Large/Small from a Use that is not Permitted to a Conditional
Use. Julie Starling spoke remarking that she is the owner of two businesses in
town, Moore Coffee Company and the Moore Copies, and that Lee Bolerjack is a
friend and fellow merchant. Ms. Starling went on to state that she felt the
town board should help the downtown merchants, especially in the current
economic situation. Ms. Starling reported that Mr. Bolerjack’s business brings
people to town and they frequent other businesses. Ms. Starling remarked that
she felt it was unfair that Mr. Bolerjack was told he could move into the
address in question and then told he was not allowed to operate his business
after he moved in. Ms. Starling touched upon the proposed detention center
expansion, remarking that people from the detention center come over to her
business and they bother her customers or ask to use the phone, or ask for free
coffee. Ms. Starling remarked that Lee Bolerjacks’ business is a small business
and he needs help from the town or he will lose his livelihood and possibly his
house. Ms. Starling also indicated that what will be left downtown will be
nothing but Bail Bondsmen and Lawyers Offices. Mr. Tracy Fry spoke concerning
the hustle and bustle of Southern Pines on Saturdays and Sundays and that we
don’t see that in Carthage. Mr. Fry stated that if the Baptist Church has any
issues with Mr. Bolerjacks’ business, then they should communicate those issues
with him. Rita Booth remarked that she struggled for six years to have a
successful business in Carthage and her business failed. Ms. Booth stated that
she feels the Town Board should be there to help small businesses, that we need
park benches and side walks all the way to the Food Lion Shopping Center, not
just Governmental Offices. Mr. Bolerjack spoke in reference to his request for
the zoning text amendment, stating that only 2% of his customers are from
Carthage, most are from out of town. Mr. Bolerjack went on to state that the
building is ideal for auto repair because it is a brick building with bay
doors. Mr. Bolerjack informed the board that the surrounding merchants have
offered to allow his customers to park at their businesses. Mr. Bolerjack
remarked that the town needs more retail business instead of allowing the jail
to expand. Mr. Bolerjack asked for help from the Board of Commissioners stating
that he has not been allowed to operate his business and he wants to keep his
business here in town and live here in town but will be unable to if his
request is not approved. Beth McNeely spoke concerning his present location,
remarking that where he was located before, he had stuff located all around the
outside of the property and the current location was more suitable because
everything would be located inside the building. Planning Board member Max Muse
remarked that the Planning Board voted to recommend to the Board of
Commissioners that they not approve the request for a Zoning Text Amendment to
change Auto Repair Services Large/Small to a Conditional Use. Mayor Fields
closed the Public Hearing at 8:22 p.m. following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board voted to accept the recommendation
of the Planning Board that the Zoning Text Amendment to change Auto Repair
Services Large/Small to a Conditional Use not be approved following a motion
made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   B.    Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing at 8:26 p.m. on the request for
a Zoning Text Amendment from Roland Gilliam to change Recreational Vehicle
Parks and Campsites from a Conditional Use to a Permitted Use. Mr. Gilliam
remarked that he plans to begin with approximately 12 sites and if it is
successful have a maximum of 35 – 40 sites in the future. Mr. Gilliam reported
that in 1996 he received a Conditional Use Permit to have 350 sites to be
located at the Gilliam McConnell Airport. Mr. Gilliam stated that at that time
he was not ready to proceed with the project, and the Conditional Use Permit
lapsed because it is only good for two years. He would like to have the option
of being able to get started without a time constraint. Mr. Gilliam reported
that the Planning Board will have to review his plans when he is ready to get
started on the project. Commissioner Barber inquired about the location at the
Airport where the recreational vehicle park sites would be. Mr. Gilliam replied
that the sites will be located beyond the Pic-N-Pig Restaurant. Planning Board
member Max Muse reported that the Planning Board had voted at their July 2,
2009 meeting to recommend to the Board of Commissioners that the Zoning Text
Amendment be approved to change Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campsites from a
Conditional Use to a Permitted Use. Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at
8:29 p.m. following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board voted to accept the Planning Board recommendation to approve
the Zoning Text Amendment to change Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campsites
from a Conditional Use to a Permitted Use, following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.    Due to the Town Board denying the request for a Zoning Text Amendment
to change Auto Repair Services Large/Small to a Conditional Use the Public
Hearing on the request for a Conditional Use Permit from Lee Bolerjack and
Richard Edelman to have an Auto Repair Service located at 102/104 S. McNeill
Street, there was no need to hold the Public Hearing.
VII.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 15, 2009
   B.    Budget Amendments #20, #21, #22
   C.    Budget Transfer #F
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.    Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart the board voted to
adopt the Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate for ANX-02-09 Alan & Bertha
McKinnon Request for Non-Contiguous Annexation. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.    The board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency for ANX-02-09
Alan & Bertha McKinnon Non-Contiguous Annexation, following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.    Following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart, the board voted to
adopt the Resolution on Fixing the Date of the Public Hearing for ANX-02-09
Alan & Bertha McKinnon Non-Contiguous Annexation request. Commissioner Sullivan
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. The Public Hearing will be held on Monday
August 17, 2009 at 7:00 p.m.
X.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copy of the Planning Board Minutes July 2, 2009 and July 9, 2009 are attached,
which are and do become part of these minutes.
XII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber asked Town Manager Carol Sparks about the DOT Meetings and
if the Town Board could get on a mailing or telephone list for notification of
meetings. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the town is on the list for
notification, however, she will check to make sure they notify the town in the
future. Mayor Fields thanked the Planning Board for all their hard work.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
None. 
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m. following a motion by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_____________________________      ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk Ronnie Fields, Mayor
AUGUST 17, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 17, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday August 17, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Pubic Works
Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
   Concerned citizens present were Bert Patrick, Larry & Beth McNeely, Robert &
Judy Phillips, Ellen Patrick, Amy Prevost, Libby Moodie, Maris & Elizabeth
Riley, Major Killian, Thomas Lockhart, Lee Bolerjack, Rita Booth, Barbara
Schindler, Tom Daniel, and reporter for the Pilot Newspaper John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   The promotion recognition of Police Officer Justin Garner was postponed
until the September meeting.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing at 7:04 p.m. on ANX-02-09
Request for Non-Contiguous Annexation from Alan & Bertha McKinnon. There was no
one present to speak concerning the annexation. Mayor Fields closed the Public
Hearing at 7:05 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following item following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 20, 2009
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.    The board adopted the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the
Town of Carthage for Alan & Bertha McKinnon following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.    Mayor Fields read the Veteran’s Proclamation voicing support for
better health care for all American Veterans. The board unanimously approved
the Veteran’s Proclamation following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in August.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber remarked about the non-working street lights in town.
Commissioner Stewart stated there was a “No Parking” sign down on the ground at
the Post Office. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley inquired about the alarm at the water
tank. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied that it has been tested and it is in
working order. Commissioner Dowdy remarked we should send notification to all
citizens explaining the alarm system.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Judy Phillips who resides at 716 Walnut St. commented that over the years she
has rarely publicly spoken to the board, but she felt compelled to address the
board concerning the proposed detention center. Ms. Phillips stated that she
understands that a new jail is needed, but feels they could find a more
suitable location and asked the board to think about the citizens. Bert Patrick
who resides at 702 Sunset Dr. presented the board with a petition against the
proposed detention center, copy attached which is and does become part of these
minutes. Ms. Patrick remarked that there are valid concerns with the proposed
detention center, such as a traffic study, which has not been done.
Furthermore, Ms. Patrick stated that the proposed detention center could
possibly house Federal detainees. Ellen Patrick who lives at 702 Sunset Dr.
stated she is against the proposed detention center. Ms. Patrick remarked that
she loved growing up here in Carthage but that she is afraid for the town, the
citizens, and the businesses. Ms. Patrick stated that she is very shy; however
she has passed out over 200 flyers this past week concerning this issue. Libby
Moodie who resides at 106 N. McNeill St. stated she just wanted to plead with
the board to vote no on the proposed detention center. Elizabeth Riley who
resides at 818 McNeill St. asked the board to vote no on the detention center.
Maris Riley who resides at 818 McNeill St. remarked that it was a bad idea to
place the detention center at the proposed location. Mr. Riley remarked that he
felt the protection of the children was the most important factor in this
decision. Major Killian who resides at 606 McReynolds St. stated that he feels
it was an ill chosen site and he does not want it at that location. Tom
Lockhart who resides at 208 Dowd St. remarked that he understands the jail is
old and out dated and needs to be expanded, but he feels it could be done on
another location such as Carriage Oaks. Lee Bolerjack who resides at 307
McNeill St. stated he did not want to see the property values in Carthage go
down. Mr. Bolerjack remarked that he moved from a prison town in Illinois.
Larry McNeely who resides at 610 Park St. stated he was tired of this whole
thing, he thought that when he moved here it would be a quiet community. Beth
McNeely who resides at 610 Park St. remarked that she was very concerned for
the integrity and quality of life of the town. Ms. McNeely stated she has lost
business the past several months. Ms. McNeely asked that the board hear what
the citizens were saying. Rita Booth who resides at 303 Martin St. stated that
she loves children and she loves the town of Carthage. Ms. Booth stated she is
not a business owner anymore in Carthage. She has gone back to teaching school.
Ms. Booth asked that the board stand up for the citizens and not allow the
detention center to be built. Barbara Schindler who resides at 1315 Dowd Rd.
remarked that the board’s action affect those that live outside the town limits
and not just the citizens in town. Tom Daniel who resides at 1096 McNeill St.
spoke concerning the proposed 24/27 Bypass, stating that people don’t know what
is going on or what the process is in obtaining more information concerning the
proposed bypass. Mr. Daniel stated he felt the board members should be
attending meetings between the DOT and citizens groups. Mayor Fields remarked
that the board does not want to appear to favor one side or the other. Much
discussion followed. Mr. Daniel urged the board to find a way to bring the
community together to understand the process. Commissioner Dowdy remarked he
has been involved in attending the meetings for a number of years. Commissioner
Dowdy remarked that they will try to get information to everyone concerning
these informational meetings. John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper reported
that a delegation from China will be visiting soon.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
The board went into a closed session following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried. The
board moved into a closed session at 7:55 p.m. The board moved back into open
session at 8:07 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and
seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Fields
remarked that there was no action to be taken.   
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:07 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_____________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 21, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 21, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
September 21, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, Milton, T. Dowdy, Jr., and Artie Barber. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative
Assistant/Deputy Clerk Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police
Captain Bart Davis, Police Sgt. Rick Bickel, Police Sgt. John Gibbons, and
Police Sgt. Justin Garner.
   Also in attendance were Shelby Diver, Jon Saver, of Sarver Housing Group,
Inc., Russell Pait, of St. Joseph’s of the Pines, Inc., Bert Patrick, Lee
McGraw, Lisa Caddell, Tom Daniel, John Chappell, reporter for the Pilot
newspaper, and numerous concerned citizens.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:  
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Due to the high volume of Police calls this evening, Chief Chris
McKenzie asked for a delay in the presentation of the promotion of Officer
Justin Garner. Tom Daniel addressed the board concerning the proposed 24/27
bypass. Mr. Daniel stated that he was here to get clarification on the town’s
position concerning the proposed bypass routes. Mr. Daniel stated he would like
to ask that town officials conduct a joint meeting with Moore County
Commissioners to discuss the alternate routes and come to a decision on which
route would be the overall best for the town. Mr. Daniel remarked that if the
town and/or county do not choose a preferred route, then DOT will. Mayor Fields
spoke concerning the proposed bypass, stating that the town is not happy with
any of the three routes proposed by the state. Mayor Fields commented that he
felt that he and the Town Manager should meet with the County Chairman first
then have a public meeting. Mr. Daniel explained that the group of citizens who
are concerned about the proposed bypass need to understand the town’s position
as well as the county’s position on the bypass. Mr. Daniel stressed that he
felt time is essential, as the DOT is keeping this project active. After
further discussion, it was decided that the board would look into the
possibility of having a joint meeting. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to have
the Town Manager send a letter to DOT opposing all three proposed routes of the
proposed bypass. Commissioner Sullivan seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.    Chief Chris McKenzie spoke concerning Officer Justin Garner, remarking
that Officer Garner has been serving in the capacity of Sgt. since the early
part of July of this year but that tonight marks the “official pinning” of the
rank of Sgt. for Officer Garner. After the pinning of the Sgt. Stripes, Chief
McKenzie recognized Sgt. Garner for receiving the American Police Hall of Fame
Silver Star, which is being awarded for Sgt. Garner’s bravery and heroic
actions at Pinelake in March of this year. The entire room erupted in applause
for Sgt. Garner as he was congratulated by the entire board.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.    Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearing on the request for Conditional
Use Permit from Ouida Newell/St. Joseph of the Pines, Inc. at 7:35 p.m. Town
Clerk Melissa Adams swore in Jon Sarver, from Sarver Housing Group, Inc. Mr.
Sarver showed a concept of the proposed Senior Housing Units, for seniors 62
and older, with restricted income limits, remarking that the plan has been
changed from 25 units to a proposed 19 units. Commissioner Barber inquired why
the number of units had been reduced. Mr. Sarver replied that it was a
financing issue. Mr. Sarver informed the board that the proposed project was
located on three acres on the corner of Rockingham Street Extension and Sanford
Street. Commissioner Dowdy asked about the water and sewer plans for the
project. Mr. Sarver stated that they have plans for a sewer lift station that
will be maintained by St. Joseph’s. Town Clerk Melissa Adams swore in Shelby
Diver, an adjoining property owner who had a few questions concerning the
proposed project. Ms. Diver inquired about the possible increase in traffic and
noise. Mr. Sarver stated that the plan calls for a wooded buffer around the
project. Mr. Sarver remarked that the number of residents that own vehicles is
between 50% and 60%, therefore it would not be like a typical apartment
complex. Mr. Sarver went on to explain that the project would most likely take
approximately 9 months to complete. Commissioner Dowdy asked about the complex
obtaining generators in the event of a power failure due to a weather
emergency. Mr. Sarver remarked that they can check on the possibility of
funding for generators. With no other questions pertaining to the proposed
project, Mayor Fields closed the Public Hearing at 7:45 p.m.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.    Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 17, 2009
   B.    Budget Amendment #1
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.  
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.    After finding the following findings of fact;
      1.    The Use requested is among those listed as an eligible Conditional
Use in which the subject property is located;
      2.   That the Conditional Use will not materially endanger the public
health or safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
as proposed;
      3.   That the Conditional Use meets all required conditions and
specifications; and that satisfactory provision and arrangement has been made
for at least the following, where applicable:
         a.   Satisfactory ingress and egress to property and proposed
structures thereon, with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian
safety and convenience, traffic flow and control.
         b.   Provision of off street parking and loading areas where required,
with particular attention to the items in (1) above, and the economic, noise,
glare and odor effects of the conditional use on adjoining properties in the
area.
         c.   Adequate and proper utilities, with reference to location,
availability and compatibility.
         d.   Buffering, with reference to type, location and dimensions.
         e.   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting, with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district.
         f.   Playgrounds, open spaces, yards, landscaping, access ways,
pedestrian ways, with reference to location, size and suitability.
         g.   Buildings and structures, with reference to location, size and
use.
         h.   Hours of operation, with particular reference to protecting and
maintaining the character of the neighborhood.
      4.   That the Conditional Use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and,
      5.   That the location and character of the Conditional Use if developed
according to the plan as proposed will be in harmony with the area in which it
is to be located and in general conformity with the plan of development of the
Town and its environs.
The board voted to grant the Request for a Conditional Use Permit from Ouida
Newell/St. Joseph of the Pines, Inc. following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart, and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.    The board approved the Proclamation for Alpha Kappa Alpha
Sorority declaring October 10, 2009 Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Day in Carthage,
following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   C.    Commissioner Barber asked Fire Chief Brian Tyner why the ladder truck
could not be repaired. Fire Chief Brian Tyner stated that the repair cost was a
minimum of $20,000, and that since it was a 1973 model, parts were very
difficult to find. Commissioner Barber wondered if insurance would cover the
repair. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to approve the Resolution Declaring
Surplus Equipment/Property, copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes. Commissioner Stewart seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   D.    After a brief discussion the board voted to approve the Updated Local
Government Participation Certification: 2010 Moore County Multi-Jurisdictional
Hazard Mitigation Plan Update following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS: 
None.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in September.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber stated that the town may want to start thinking about doing
our own fire inspections in the future, at no cost to local businesses.
Commissioner Stewart remarked he had recently met with County Commissioners and
local Municipal Officials. Commissioner Barber remarked that a petition against
the proposed detention center that has his name on it, was not a petition, that
it was a sign up sheet for a meeting that he had signed his name to. Mayor
Fields remarked how very proud he was of Sgt. Justin Garner, and all of the
town employees.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Bert Patrick addressed the board to notify them that Scott Mason with Channel
5, had recently come to Carthage to do a piece for the Tar Heel Traveler. Ms.
Patrick stated that he had interviewed Roland Gilliam on a story about the Pik-
N-Pig Barbeque located at the Gilliam McConnell Airport. Ms. Patrick encouraged
everyone to watch tomorrow September 22 at 5:55 p.m. In addition, Ms. Patrick
reported that Mr. Mason will be coming back on November 11, 2009 to do a story
on the Carthage Museum.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
The board went into a closed session at 8:15 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board moved back into regular session at 8:20 p.m. Mayor Fields
remarked there was no action to be taken.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:20 p.m.
____________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Ronnie Fields, Mayor
OCTOBER 19, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 19, 2009
7:00 P.M.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
October 19, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Robert Sullivan, Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full
board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief
Brian Tyner, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Concerned Citizens present were Richard and Jeffery Frye, Bert Patrick, Lee
McGraw, Lisa Caddell, Carl Williams, Beth McNeely, Elizabeth Riley, Libby
Moodie, Tom Daniel, Kim Livengood, Galena & Thomas Lockhart, and John Chappell,
reporter for the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Sullivan gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.    Mayor Fields opened the Public Hearings at 7:01 p.m. to hear a request
to consider a Text Amendment to the Development Ordinance to add Farmers
Market/Sale of Produce as a Permitted Use in “HCD” & to add Wayside Stand/Farm
Produce Produced on Site as a Conditional Use in “HCD” and a request for a
Conditional Use Permit from Jeffery & Richard Frye to allow a Wayside Stand/
Farm Produce Produced on Site at 4680 Hwy 15-501. Mr. Jeffery Frye addressed
the board concerning his request, stating that he would like to plant
strawberries on the property located at 4680 Hwy 15-501 and sell them at that
location along with other agricultural items. There was much discussion
concerning Mr. Frye’s future plans for the property. Mr. Richard Frye spoke
explaining that at the Planning Board meeting they mistakenly thought they had
several acres in the rear of the property that was Zoned “Residential/
Agricultural”. Discussion followed. Mr. Richard Frye presented the board with a
detailed plan for the property, showing that the old house located on the
property will be torn down and a new building would be built to sell the
produce as well as, baked goods, etc. Mr. Richard Frye stated that if they were
granted a Conditional Use Permit, he would be willing to put restrictions on
the deed, in the event he sold the property. There was some concern about the
possibility of traffic parking on the side of the road in front of the
property. After much discussion it was decided that the board would table the
requests, with no further Public Hearings or notices, so that the Town Attorney
could be consulted on placing restrictions on the deed of the property. Mayor
Fields closed the Public Hearing at 7:10 p.m.
   The board approved an addition to the agenda; item F. to appoint Catherine
Graham to fill the vacancy on the Planning Board, following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:  
The Board approved the following item following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A. Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 21, 2009
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.   
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.    The decision on the Text Amendment to add Farmers Market/Sale of
Produce as a Permitted Use in “HCD” was tabled in order to consult with the
Town Attorney, with no further Public Hearing or notices, following a motion
made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   B.     The decision on the Text Amendment to add Wayside Stand/Farm Produce
Produced on Site as a Conditional Use in “HCD” was tabled in order to consult
with the Town Attorney, with no further Public Hearing or notices, following a
motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   C.    The decision on the request from Jeffery & Richard Frye for a
Conditional Use Permit to have a Wayside Stand/Farm Produce Produced on Site
located at 4680 Hwy 15-501 was tabled in order to consult with the Town
Attorney with no further Public Hearing or notices, following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   D.    The board voted to approve the Proclamation for Moore County Red
Ribbon Week October 23-31, 2009 following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart
and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.    The board voted to adopt the Resolution Declaring Concurrence with
Proposal from the NC Department of Transportation to Defer the Carthage Bypass
Project (TIP No. R-2212) following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.    The board voted unanimously to appoint Catherine Graham to the
Planning Board following a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS: 
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copy of the Planning Board Minutes for October 1, 2009 are attached, which are
and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy commented on the decision of the DOT to defer the proposed
24/27 Bypass, remarking that he felt we should all pause and take a deep breath
on the issues before us. Commissioner Dowdy stated he felt those issues were
not as bad as we think they are, with cooperation and respect, they can be
dealt with. Commissioner Stewart informed everyone he had attended the Alpha
Kappa Alpha reunion this past weekend at Little River, remarking that they were
very appreciative of the Proclamation that he had presented on behalf of the
Board of Commissioners.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Elizabeth Riley spoke concerning the proposed 24/27 Bypass and the proposed
detention center, remarking that she would like to see the town work together
to stop the proposed detention center from being built in downtown Carthage.
Tom Daniel spoke concerning the proposed 24/27 Bypass stating that he feels the
town should work with the community in order to make the DOT come up with a
proposed route, and not to defer the project. Dr. Daniel communicated that he
felt that if the project was deferred, that it will not go away and everyone in
the community will be living in limbo, not knowing how the future project will
affect their property. Mr. Thomas Lockhart spoke concerning the proposed
detention center, stating that he felt the sewer system would have to be
upgraded in order to handle the expected capacity. Mr. Lockhart stated he
thought the water/sewer bills had already been increased in order to pay for
the upgrades, and that he felt the citizens should not have to pay for the
upgrades. Bert Patrick addressed the board, handing out highlights from the
recent Moore County Board of Commissioners meeting regarding the proposed
detention center, as well as, Minutes from the Carthage Board of Commissioners
Meeting held August 20, 2007. Ms. Patrick reiterated comments made at previous
meetings that the detention center will hold over 600 prisoners, etc. Kim
Livengood addressed the board concerning the proposed 24-27 Bypass and handed
out a copy of her presentation, copy attached, which is and does become part of
these minutes. Ms. Livengood then preceded to read her prepared statements
concerning the proposed 24-27 Bypass with emphasis on the fact that if the DOT
defers the proposed project, everyone living within the proposed routes would
be living in limbo with an uncertain future for their property.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 7:55 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Stewart. All ayes. Motion carried. The board moved back into
regular session at 8:10 p.m. Mayor Fields remarked there was no action to be
taken.  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:10 p.m.   
__________________________            _______________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk         Ronnie Fields, Mayor
NOVEMBER 16, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 16, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
November 16, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Tom Stewart, Robert Sullivan, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Commissioners - Elect
Lisa Caddell and Lee McGraw.
   Others present were Starla Hughes, CPA, with Sharrard, McGee & Co., P.A.,
Jeffery and Richard Frye, and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the Meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor Fields led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Starla Hughes, CPA with Sharrard, McGee & Co., P.A. gave a
presentation of the FY 2008-2009 Audit Report, a copy may be viewed at the
Carthage Municipal Building. Ms. Hughes informed the board that there was a
Fund Balance appropriation budgeted in order to balance the 2008-2009 FY budget
but was not needed due to a surplus at year end.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The Board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 19, 2009
   B.   Budget Transfer #A
   C.   Budget Amendments #2, #3
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.   
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The decision on the Text Amendment to add Farmers Market/Sale of
Produce as a Permitted Use in Highway Commercial District was tabled until the
December Regular Meeting, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The purpose of
tabling the item is to hold a Public Hearing in order to make a Text Amendment
to the Development Ordinance to add Farmers Market/Sale of Produce as a
Conditional Use in the Central Business District, B-2 Business District,
Thoroughfare Business District and Highway Commercial District.
   B.   After much discussion The Board approved the Text Amendment to add
Wayside Stand/Farm Produce Produced on Site as a Conditional Use in “HCD”
Highway Commercial District following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   After much discussion the board approved the request from Jeffery &
Richard Frye for Conditional Use Permit to have a Wayside Stand/Farm Produced
on Site located at 4680 Hwy 15-501, with the condition that any structure built
can not be metal and would have to be a permanent structure that meets the Town
of Carthage Development Ordinance guidelines for construction, following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Sullivan. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   After a brief discussion the Board approved changing the date of the
December Meeting from Monday December 21, 2009 to Monday December 14, 2009 at
7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building. All ayes.
Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in November.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber inquired about the sale of surplus equipment on
GovDeals.Com. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported all the equipment has been
sold with the exception of the Police Department Dodge Durango. Town Manager
Carol Sparks stated the town did receive a good price for the items sold.
Commissioner Dowdy remarked about many street lights that are out in town. The
Police Department will get all the pole numbers to the street lights that are
out or not working properly. Commissioner Dowdy remarked about the candy on the
town Christmas float, stating that he felt there was not enough candy to hand
out during the route of the parade. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the
town spends $200 on the candy. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley asked about the alarm
whistle in town. Town Manager Carol Sparks explained that due to possible
liability in not reaching everyone in town that the town is looking into a
reverse 911 system.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell reported that Riley Paving is paving using “green” standards.
John Chappell spoke concerning the new restaurant that the owners of PeKing Wok
is building, remarking that the new name of the restaurant is The Flying Tiger.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 8:05 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The board reconvened their
regular meeting at 8:30 p.m. Mayor Fields remarked there was no action taken.
  
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Fields adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.
_________________________            ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk           Ronnie Fields, Mayor
DECEMBER 14, 2009
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 14, 2009
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
December 14, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Ronnie Fields, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Robert Sullivan, Artie Barber, Tom Stewart, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full
board. Also present were Commissioners Elect Lisa Caddell, and Lee McGraw.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer/Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips, Administrative
Assistant/Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, Police Sgt. John Gibbons, and Director of Public Works Rocky
Davis.
   Also in attendance were Reverend Rick Martindale, Clerk of Court Susan
Hicks, Pilot Newspaper Reporter John Chappell, and numerous family and friends
of the newly elected Mayor and Commissioners.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION: 
Reverend Rick Martindale gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Robert Sullivan led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance. 
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following item following a motion made by Commissioner/
Mayor-Elect Stewart and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 16, 2009
SWEARING IN OF NEWLY ELECTED MAYOR & TOWN COMMISSIONERS BY CLERK OF COURT SUSAN
HICKS
   Followed by a RECEPTION
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and becomes part of these minutes.  
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Commissioner Jean Riley was appointed Mayor Pro-Tem, following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   B.   The board appointed Commissioner Lisa Caddell as an authorized check
signer, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board appointed Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley as an authorized check
signer, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Due to the Martin Luther King Holiday the board voted to change the
January 18, 2010 Regular Meeting Date to Tuesday January 19, 2010, following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board adopted the Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate a
Petition Received Under G.S. 106A-58.1 for Richard W. Frye - ANX-03-09 request
for Contiguous Annexation, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.    The board adopted the Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing on
Question of Annexation Pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2, as Amended, for Richard W.
Frye - ANX-03-09, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded
by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   The board voted to appoint Commissioner Dowdy as the Municipal
Representative to the Triangle J Council of Governments Rural Transportation
Advisory Committee, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded
by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS: 
None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS: 
A copy of the Planning Board December 3, 2009 Minutes is attached, which is and
does become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber mentioned that two citizens have contacted him regarding
their water meters not being read. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that she
would check out the complaint. Commissioner Dowdy stated he has had someone
inquire about the license tax that the town charges on property taxes. Town
Manager Carol Sparks communicated that the town is allowed by law to charge the
$5.00 license tax with out being required to actually give a license tag. Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley remarked how much she enjoyed the town employee Christmas party.
Commissioner Dowdy asked about the St. Joseph project for assisted living
apartments. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported they are moving forward with the
project.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION TO DISCUSS LEGAL MATTERS/PERSONNEL G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(3) (6):
The board moved into a closed session at 7:50 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board reconvened their regular meeting at 8:45 p.m. Mayor Stewart
remarked there was no action to be taken.   
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m.
__________________________            ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk         Tom Stewart, Mayor
2010 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 19, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
SPECIAL/JOINT MEETING
JANUARY 19, 2010
5:30 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special/Joint Meeting with the
Carthage Planning Board on Tuesday January 19, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. at the
McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Lisa Caddell, Lee McGraw, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
Planning Board members present were Chairman Chris Lassiter, Vernon Kelly, Bob
Hunt, Connie Burns, Percy DeGraffenreid, Mark Frye, and Catherine Graham. A
quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/Deputy Clerk Karen
O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, and Police Sgt. John Gibbons.
   Also in attendance were Moore County Director of Public Works Dennis Brobst,
Brent Martin of Land Design, Paul Boney of LS3P Architects, and Pete Cayado of
Ware Bonsall Architects, Ken Wilkinson, Captain Ronnie Fields, and Chief Deputy
Neil Godfrey of the Moore County Sheriff’s Office, and John Chappell, Reporter
for the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Planning Board Chairman Chris Lassiter called the meeting to order at 5:30
p.m.
II.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The Planning Board reviewed the proposed plans for Jeffrey Frye, copy
attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Frye submitted
plans to build an 864 sq. ft. building for his produce, with a 1000 sq. ft.
covered porch. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that the building is in
compliance with the Development Ordinance.
   B.   Moore County Public Works Director Dennis Brobst presented an overview
of the proposed Moore County Governmental Center, and Detention Center. Brent
Martin from Land Design spoke concerning the proposed plans, remarking that the
governmental center included 93,173 square feet and the public safety and
detention building included 146,997 square feet. There was a brief discussion
concerning the parking.
   The Planning Board approved recommendation to the Board of Commissioners for
the proposed Moore County Governmental Center and Detention Center following a
motion made by Bob Hunt, and seconded by Vernon Kelly. (6) ayes, and (1) nay.
Motion carried. Catherine Graham voted nay. Ms. Graham explained her reason for
voting nay, by commenting that because there has been a recommendation for a
new Court facility she feels that for the safety and security of the Courthouse
personnel as well as others, it should be located on the same property, or
within close proximity of the new proposed Detention Center.
III.   ADJOURNMENT:
   The meeting was adjourned at 6: p.m. following a motion made by Percy
DeGraffenreid and seconded by Bob Hunt. All ayes. Motion carried.
                  ___________________________
                  Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk/
                  Development Administrator
JANUARY 19, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 19, 2010
7:00 P.M
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Tuesday
January 19, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Lee McGraw, Lisa Caddell, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manger/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Administrative Assistant/
Deputy Clerk Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also in attendance were Ken Wilkinson, Jeffrey Frye, and John Chappell,
reporter for the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance. 
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing at 7:05 p.m. on the request for
Annexation from Richard Frye - ANX-03-09. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported
that the board had previously approved Mr. Jeffrey Frye’s Conditional Use to
grow and sell strawberries and produce on the property located at 4680 Hwy 15-
501 and they are asking to be annexed in order to obtain town water. Town
Manager Carol Sparks communicated that the adjoining property owners had been
notified, and there had not been any opposition to the request for annexation.
Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:06 p.m.
   B.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing at 7:06 p.m. on the proposed
Text Amendments to the Town of Carthage Development Ordinance;
      a)   the first is to change Farmers Market/Sale of Produce from a
Permitted Use to a Conditional Use in the CBD “Central Business District” and
to add it as a Conditional Use in the B-2, HCD “Highway Commercial District”
and TBD “Thoroughfare Business District”;
      b)   the second proposed text amendment is to change Nursing/Convalescent
Homes from a Use Not Permitted to a Permitted Use in the B-2 Zoning District;
      c)   the third proposed text amendment is to change the Appearance
Standards in the Development Ordinance to specify that any primary structure in
the Historical District, R-10 District “Residential 10,000 sq. ft. lots, R-20
“Residential 20,000 sq. ft. lots” and RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000
sq. ft. lots” shall be constructed of masonry, stone, stucco, or frame
materials, including aluminum, vinyl, or masonite siding, with the exception
of mobile homes on an individual lot in the RA-40 Zoning District.
   There was no opposition to any of the proposed Development Ordinance Text
Amendments. Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:08 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
A. Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting December 14, 2009
B. Budget Amendments #4, #5
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Dowdy remarked that he would like an update on the water plant. Town Manager
Carol Sparks stated that she can set something up for the Budget Retreat in
February.  
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A. The board accepted the Certificate of Sufficiency for Richard W. Frye
ANX-03-09 request for Contiguous Annexation following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion
carried
   B.   The board adopted the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits for
Richard W. Frye ANX-03-09 Request for Contiguous Annexation following a motion
made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved the Text Amendment to change Farmers Market/Sale of
Produce from a Permitted Use to a Conditional Use in the CBD “Central Business
District” and to add it as a Conditional Use in the B-2, HCD “Highway
Commercial District” and TBD “Thoroughfare Business District”, following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved the Text Amendment to change Nursing/Convalescent
Homes from a Use Not Permitted to a Permitted Use in the B-2 Zoning District,
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board approved the Text Amendment to change the Appearance
Standards in the Development Ordinance to specify that any primary structure in
the Historical District, R-10 District “Residential 10,000 sq. ft. lots, R-20
“Residential 20,000 sq. ft. lots” and RA-40 “Residential/Agricultural 40,000
sq. ft. lots” shall be constructed of masonry, stone, stucco, or frame
materials, including aluminum, vinyl, or masonite siding, with the exception of
mobile homes on an individual lot in the RA-40 Zoning District, following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.  
   F.   The board approved the plans for the proposed County of Moore
Governmental Center and Detention Center following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley and seconded by Commission Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   The board decided to table the Mutual Aid Agreement with Northwest
Pocket Volunteer Fire Department in order to have time to allow the Town
Attorney to review the document, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy
and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   H.   The board approved the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale, copy attached, which is and does become part of these
minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   I.   The board decided to hold the February Budget Retreat at the W.C.
Walton Municipal Building in the Fire Department on Thursday February 25, 2010
beginning at 8:30 a.m., following a motion made by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   None.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Barber commented that the town should look into govoffice.com,
a provider of governmental websites, perhaps for a new format for the town’s
website. Commissioner Dowdy stated he would like to commend the Public Works
Department for all their hard work and dedication recently during the extremely
cold weather, as well as, all the other Departments.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 7:25 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.  
_________________________          __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk       Tom Stewart, Mayor
FEBRUARY 15, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 15, 2010
7:00 P.M
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
February 15, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Lee McGraw, Lisa Caddell, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
   Also present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also attending were David McKew from United Water, Reverend Nathanial
Jackson, and Carthage Historical Committee Members Charles Prevost, and Bert
Patrick.
I.    CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A. Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 19, 2010
   B. Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Closed Session February 3,
2010
   C. Budget Amendment #6
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks commented that the Public Works Department was out clearing the
streets this past Friday night during the snow. Town Manager Carol Sparks
remarked that the sewer pump station located on Hwy 22 went out this past
Sunday but is now operational. Additionally, Town Manager Carol Sparks stated
that the Police Department had been very busy this past Friday investigating a
shooting that resulted in a woman’s death. Commissioner Barber inquired about
the problem with the discharging of firearms at Stonegate Subdivision. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported that the town has no police authority in the ETJ,
only zoning and land use authority, the Moore County Sheriff’s Department has
policing authority in Stonegate. Commissioner Barber asked Town Manager Carol
Sparks to get something in writing absolving the town of any responsibility.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   David McKew of United Water gave an update to the board on the water
plant highlighting the reports of water sampling for the past year. Mr. McKew
reported to the board that the state is now requiring more water samples, five
times a week at predetermined sampling sites. Mr. McKew remarked that the state
picks the sampling sites. Mr. McKew stated that the state came in October 2009
and did a full inspection of the water plant. Commissioner Dowdy began
discussion concerning the chemical taste of the water, and compliance issues
that the water has had in the past. Commissioner Dowdy also spoke concerning
some homeowners that have a black ring in the toilet. David McKew remarked that
sometimes the chlorine smell is noticed more during the process of going from a
chlorine ammonia blend to free chlorine (chlorine only), but the state mandates
that this is done one month out of the year. Additionally, Mr. McKew stated
that sometimes the black rings are caused by the rubber parts in the plumbing.
Mr. McKew stated that they always go and collect samples and flush the lines in
the area whenever a complaint is made. Mr. McKew reported that they have not
received any complaints recently, and if there are problems or complaints, the
citizens need to report them to the town office. Commissioner Dowdy brought
attention to the problems with the old water pipes downtown. Director of Public
Works commented that some of the pipes are corroded. David McKew remarked that
the water going through those pipes is good, that the corroded lines are not
affecting the quality of the water. Commissioner Dowdy inquired about adding
more locations in the Needmore area for testing. David McKew reiterated that
the state picks the sampling locations. Mr. McKew stated that the Consumer
Confidence Report will be completed within the next few months, and that the
report is a good way to educate the citizens about any water issues.
   B.   Reverend Nathaniel Johnson, Pastor of Stoney Hill Baptist Church
addressed the board concerning an after school program to be located in
Carthage that he is involved in and is getting funding for. Reverend Jackson
reported that he is working on establishing working partnerships with the
schools and various organizations to help support the program. Reverend Jackson
passed out to the board a list of the objectives of the program. Reverend
Jackson stated the program will be from 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday thru
Friday. Initially, Reverend Jackson stated he had spoken to Town Manager Carol
Sparks concerning the possibility of using the Community building, but he has
had offers to use space at some of the school locations. Reverend Jackson
remarked he came tonight to explain the program and to request the town’s
support.   
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the Planning Board/Board of Commissioners Special Meeting January
19, 2010 and the Planning Board Regular Meeting February 4, 2010 minutes are
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes. Bert Patrick addressed
the board concerning the Historical Committee Meeting held on January 21, 2010.
Ms. Patrick presented the board with the January 21, 2010 minutes, copy
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes. Ms. Patrick went over
some of the highlights of the meeting, remarking that the Historical Committee
will be selling raffle tickets for tickets to a North Carolina Hurricanes
Hockey Game and wanted to request that the board help them sell tickets. Ms
Patrick reported to the board that the heating/air conditioning system at the
Museum has been out for quite some time. Ms. Patrick stated that the Historical
Committee has decided that they can contribute $500.00 towards a new system.
Ms. Patrick reported that the Historical Committee will begin meeting each
month before the town’s regular board meeting and will keep the board apprised
of the committee’s activities. Mayor Stewart requested that in the future the
Chairman of the Historical Committee turn in the minutes of their meetings to
the Town Clerk prior to the town’s regular board meeting.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley remarked about the excellent job that Public Works did
keeping the streets clear during the recent snow storms.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   None.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:20 p.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_________________________            ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk         Tom Stewart, Mayor
FEBRUARY 25, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET RETREAT
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 25, 2010
8:30 A.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget Retreat on
Thursday February 25, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. at the Carthage Fire Department located
within the Carthage Municipal Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell, Lee McGraw, and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to hold a budget workshop/retreat for
the fiscal year 2010-2011.
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 8:50 a.m. Commissioner Dowdy
gave the invocation.
   Discussion and work session began concerning the upcoming FY 2010-2011
budget. Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips went over the
fiscal year 2010-2011 budget process, fund balance summary and outstanding
debts. Town Manager Carol Sparks reviewed the Fee and Rate Schedule, remarking
at this time there is no plan to increase water or sewer rates. Town Manager
Carol Sparks remarked that the only increase expected by Allied Waste and
United Water is the annual CPI (Consumer Price Increase). The board voted to
charge a $200 .00 a day rental fee on the Community Building, following a
motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Stewart remarked about the board not being required to have a second
to a motion. Mayor Stewart asked the board if they would like to do away with
the requirement, or keep it as the board has always done. After a brief
discussion, Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to continue to require a second to
a motion, Commissioner Caddell seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board continued to review the fee and rate schedule. Assistant Town
Manager /Finance Officer Linda Phillips began discussion concerning adopting a
Write-Off of Uncollectible Accounts Receivable Policy, remarking that the
Auditors have been requesting that this be done for a number of years.
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips informed the board that
to her knowledge, this has not ever been done since she began working for the
town. Linda reported that the amount the Auditors want the town to write off
represents over 14 years worth of uncollectible debt, in the amount of
$32,138.58. The board voted to adopt the Write-Off of Uncollectible Accounts
Receivable Policy, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board voted to write off
the recommended amount of $32,138.58, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Stewart remarked the board would take a break in order to have their
pictures taken for the website. The board took a break from 9:40 a.m. until 10:
25 a.m.
   Fire Chief Brian Tyner, assisted by Assistant Fire Chief Mike Cornell,
Captain Chris Chisholm, Captain James Whitaker, and Lt. Darrell Sauls of the
Carthage Fire Department gave a Power Point presentation concerning the Fire
Department becoming a Fire/Rescue District within the town limits. Fire Chief
Brian Tyner reported he was requesting that the board consider granting
permission for the Fire Department to become a “Light Duty” Rescue Department.
Chief Tyner reported that the Fire Department already meets all the
requirements for becoming a “Light Duty” Rescue Department. Furthermore, Chief
Tyner reported that, if permission is granted to become a Rescue Department,
their goal is to become a “Medium Duty” Rescue Department within five years.
Chief Tyner remarked that if the board were to grant permission to allow rescue
service within the town limits, the Fire Department Charter would have to be
amended. After some discussion concerning this issue, it was decided that Town
Manager Carol Sparks would consult with the Town Attorney concerning this
issue.
   Mayor Stewart remarked that the board would be taking a break for lunch. The
board took a break at 11:45 a.m. for lunch.
   The board resumed the budget retreat at 1:00 p.m. with Police Chief Chris
McKenzie and Captain Bart Davis presenting the proposed Police Department
budget requests. Chief McKenzie highlighted some of the increases to the
proposed budget. Some of Chief McKenzie’s requests included increases to
maintenance & repairs, website maintenance, auto supplies, office supplies, dry
cleaning, weapons, police dog, and criminal investigations.
   Director of Public Works Rocky Davis addressed the board concerning his
proposed budget requests. The board reviewed his increased budget items such
as, an increase in building & grounds costs, with an unfunded request for a new
generator; increases for streets & sidewalks; and requests for repairs and
upgrades to several sewer pump stations. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported
that she is investigating grants and low interest loans in order to have the
pump stations repaired and/or upgraded. It was the general consensus of the
board that if it was necessary, to proceed with the sewer pump station repairs
before the 2010-2011 budget is adopted. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
moved onto additional budget requests for increases to maintenance repairs,
supplies, chemicals, and unfunded requests for the purchase of a new backhoe,
generators for the sewer pump stations, and a sewer camera. After much
discussion with the board concerning these items, Director of Public Works
remarked that the sewer camera and the backhoe were at the top of his most
needed list.
   The board took a break at 2:55 p.m. The board resumed the budget retreat at
3:05 p.m. with discussion concerning the Carthage Historical Committee. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported that there are several members that have not been
officially appointed by the Board of Commissioners. There was discussion
concerning amending the by-laws to remove the requirement that historical
committee members reside within the town limits or extra territorial
jurisdiction, as well as, adding that political activities are restricted.
After much discussion, it was decided to amend the by-laws of the Carthage
Historical Committee by removing the requirement that all members shall reside
within the town limits or ETJ, and adding the wording that the members of the
Historical Committee serve at the pleasure of the Town of Carthage Board of
Commissioners, that the Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to
remove any member at any time, following a motion made Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board decided
that it should be advertised that the town was looking for volunteers to serve
on the Historical Committee, and give all the current members an opportunity to
apply. The board voted to appoint the members of the Historical Committee for
initial terms, as follows:
(1)   Six (6) members, with terms to expire June 30, 2013
(2)   Eight (8) members, with terms to expire June 30, 2014
(3)   Eight (8) members, with terms to expire June 30, 2015
following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion Carried.
   The board adjourned at 3:55 p.m. following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
________________________            _______________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk         Tom Stewart, Mayor
FEBRUARY 25, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
FEBRUARY 25, 2010
4:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday
February 25, 2010 at 4:00 p.m. at the Carthage Fire Department located at 4396
Hwy 15-501.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw, and Lisa Caddell. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, and Town Clerk Melissa Adams.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss an assessment of a Civil
Penalty by North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. Town Manager Carol
Sparks opened discussion concerning a sewage leakage on November 30, 2009
caused by a dislodged piece of tree trunk in which plastic bags that had been
flushed into the sewer system got hung up on. Town Manager Carol Sparks
reported that the leak was contained and repaired within three hours of
discovery and that she notified NCDENR and complied with all the requirements
of notification. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that she recently received
a notice of an assessment of Civil Penalty from NCDENR in the amount of $1000,
and $130.03 for enforcement costs. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the
notice of violation stated that the penalty was for “discharge without valid
permit”. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that after discussing the situation
with Belinda Hinson, Water Quality Regional Supervisor in Fayetteville, the
town has two options; pay the assessment or ask for an Administrative Hearing.
After a brief discussion, it was the consensus of the board that Town Manager
Carol Sparks should ask for an Administrative Hearing to appeal the assessment.
    Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 4:05 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Caddell and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
____________________________         __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
MARCH 15, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 15, 2010
7:00 P.M
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday March 15, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell, Artie Barber, and Lee McGraw. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant
Karen O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner,
Police Major Bart Davis, Police Officer Tim Dalton, and Police Lt. Rick Bickel.
Also in attendance were Carthage Historical Committee Members Charles Prevost,
Bert Patrick, Helen Mohan, and Carol Steed, and from the Pilot Newspaper John
Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Caddell led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Police Major Bart Davis recognized Police Officer Tim Dalton as the
“Officer of the Year” and presented Office Dalton with a plaque. The board
congratulated Officer Dalton.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 15, 2010
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Budget Retreat February
25, 2010
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 25, 2010
   D.   Budget Amendments #7, #8
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that the DOT Meeting is on March 24, 2010 from 9:00 a.m.
to 11:00 a.m. and anyone wanting to attend can contact her. Town Manager Carol
Sparks reminded everyone about the Ethics Webinar on Thursday March 25, 2010
from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. at Southern Software in Southern Pines. Town
Manager Carol Sparks informed the board the town would be holding a Memorial
Service on the anniversary of the Pinelake incident on Monday March 29, 2010 at
6:00 p.m. at Nancy Kiser Park in Carthage. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked
that State Representative James Boles will be there to present Carthage Police
Sgt. Justin Garner and Jerry Avent’s family with the Order of the Longleaf Pine
Award; in addition the town will present Sgt Garner and Mr. Avant’s family with
a plaque.     
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board adopted the NCDOT Sidewalk Enhancement Grant
Resolution following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board approved the changes to the Carthage Historical By-Laws as
presented, following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked
that everyone on the Historical Committee is up for reappointment. Town Manager
Carol Sparks stated she had applications available for anyone wishing to apply
or reapply to serve on the committee.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Copy of the Planning Board Regular Meeting March 4, 2010, minutes are
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes. Bert Patrick presented
the board with a copy of the Historical Committee February 9, 2010 Minutes and
the March 9, 2010 Meeting Agenda and Minutes. Ms. Patrick spoke concerning the
March 9, 2010 Historical Committee Meeting, reporting that the Historical
Society will be drawing the raffle tickets for their fundraising event on
Wednesday March 17, 2010. Ms. Patrick remarked that the museum had recently
received many items from Carthage Fabrics, which they would like to display at
the Buggy Festival. Ms. Patrick declared that a concerned citizen had expressed
concern for the condition of the town cemetery, and had given her some
pictures. Ms. Patrick stated she informed the citizen that the town is in
charge of the cemetery and that she would pass along the concerns and the
pictures to the town board.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner McGraw reported that a citizen on McReynolds Street had
recently praised the Public Works Department for their promptness in picking up
leaves and limbs.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell spoke concerning writing a story about living in a small town
similar to Mayberry. John Chappell asked if anyone had any antidotes to
contribute. Bert Patrick reported that the rope and the flag at the museum had
come down and needs to be put back up on the flag pole. Commissioner Barber
inquired about the old gas tanks located at Paul Cummings building located at
207 S. McNeill Street. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that Moore County Fire
Inspectors are looking into the possible removal of the gas tanks. Commissioner
Dowdy inquired about the recent Planning Board Meeting where the Planning Board
discussed Gaddy Waste Services possibly relocating their business on four acres
owned by Kay Boggs. Commissioner Dowdy asked if the proposed business was in
conformity with the surrounding business and if the trucks, dumpsters and port-
a-john to be stored were going to be empty. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked
that everything that is to be stored will be empty, but that the property is
zoned Thoroughfare Business District and does not permit outside storage of
equipment. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that Dunkin Donuts will
be opening at the Wilco Hess Gas Station located at 3778 Hwy 15-501 on Thursday
March 18, 2010. John Chappell reported that the sign for the Flying Tiger
Restaurant is due to be installed this week.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 7:25 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
________________________         ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
MARCH 25, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 25, 2010
4:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday March
25, 2010 at 4:00 p.m. at Southern Software located at 150 Perry Drive in
Southern Pines.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to attend a webinar hosted by the
School of Government on Ethics. The speakers for the webinar were Fleming Bell
and Eileen Youens Professors from the School of Government.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lisa
Caddell, Artie Barber, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., and Lee McGraw. A full board.
   Others present were Moore County Commissioners Larry Caddell, and Jimmy
Melton, Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and Administrative Assistant/Deputy Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara.
   The webinar began at 4:00 p.m. Hand outs covering the topic were given out
prior to the meeting starting. The hand outs contained objectives and case
problems, as well as, copies of the slides of the presentation. The webinar
began with defining ethics and ethical behavior, distinguishing between legal
and ethical standards, making ethical decisions, drafting a Code of Ethics,
conflicts of interest, misuse of secret information, gifts and favors, and
various conflicts of interest in voting. Eileen Youens went over the various
N.C. General Statues that govern conflicts on voting. The webinar was
interactive and asked several polling questions in which the board could
answer. The webinar ended at 6:10 p.m.
________________________         __________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
APRIL 19, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 19, 2010
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday April 19, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell, Artie Barber, and Lee McGraw. A full board.
   Others present were Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips,
Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and
Police Chief Chris McKenzie.
Also in attendance were Carthage Historical Committee Members Bert Patrick,
Helen Mohan, and Carol Steed, and from the Pilot Newspaper John Chappell, Dr.
David Bruton, John O’Malley, Tim Emmert, Fenton Wilkinson from Sandhills Farm
to Table Cooperative, David McKew from Hydro Management, Ray Ogden from
Partners in Progress, and John Benton from Moore County DSS.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing to consider the Ordinance
Amending the Code of Ordinances – Section 100.63 Flood Damage Prevention
Standards at 7:01 p.m. There was no one to speak on the issue. Mayor Stewart
closed the Public Hearing at 7:02 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 15, 2010
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting March 25, 2010
   C.   Budget Amendment #9
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Assistant
Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips brought attention to the Fire
Department resuming light rescue calls. Fire Chief Tyner remarked that the Fire
Department has been inspected and is certified to answer light duty rescue
calls 24 hours 7 days a week and that he has talked with the Carthage Rescue
Department Chief Joe Kamer and he is fine with the Fire Department resuming
answering the rescue calls along with the Rescue Squad. The board voted to
allow the Fire Department to resume answering light rescue calls, in
cooperation with the Carthage Rescue Squad, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved Amending the Code of Ordinances – Section 100.63
Flood Damage Prevention Standards following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Fenton Wilkinson addressed the board concerning the request from the
Sandhills Farm to Table Cooperative to use the McDonald Building or the
Community Building at no charge. Mr. Wilkinson detailed that the Farm to Table
Cooperative is a small operation connecting local farmers with local consumers.
Mr. Wilkinson explained that the farms grow the produce, deliver it to a site
where it is packed into boxes, then the boxes are delivered to gathering sites
throughout the county where they are picked up by the consumer. Mr. Wilkinson
remarked that they have over 850 members in the cooperative and almost 500
boxes a week will be delivered countywide to the gathering sites. Mr. Wilkinson
explained that the cooperative is in need of a gathering site for delivery of
approximately 40 boxes of produce in the Carthage area and would like to use
the McDonald Building or the Carthage Community Building free of charge. Mr.
Wilkinson remarked that this would bring people into the downtown area of
Carthage. Furthermore, Mr. Wilkinson stated that they would like to add taste
testing, nutritional education, hand out recipes, and possibly cooking classes
to the site location. Mr. Wilkinson reported that the boxes will be packed at
the old Matthews Market on Vass Carthage Road then delivered to the gathering
center. Mr. Wilkinson explained about the “swap boxes”, reporting that there
will be a box in which a consumer may put an item they do not want, and if they
wish they may take another item from that box, at the end of the day what ever
is left in the “swap” box, will be donated to a designated charity.
Commissioner McGraw remarked that the town can not allow one organization to
use the building at no charge and not allow others. Commissioner McGraw asked
if they had checked on using the Fairground property. Commissioner Barber
inquired about opening it up to farmers from other counties. Mr. Wilkinson
replied that they would open it up to farmers outside of the county, if there
was a demand for items not grown locally, however, they would strive to keep it
as local as possible. Commissioner Barber asked if they had checked on other
locations in Carthage. Mr. Wilkinson remarked that they have checked on other
places, but nothing has worked out. The board voted to table a decision on
allowing the Farm to Table Cooperative to use the McDonald Building or the
Community Building at no charge until the board could have an opportunity to
discuss this issue further, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and
seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Discussion began concerning electronic gaming/internet cafes. Town
Manager Carol Sparks had informed the board of several requests to open this
type of business in Carthage. Presently, under the current development
ordinance it is not a permitted use. After a brief discussion the board decided
to ask the Carthage Planning Board for a recommendation on considering the
Electronic Gaming Operations, following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw
and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board began discussion concerning the applications for appointment
to the Carthage Historical Committee. The board voted to appoint Elaine Frye to
the Historical Committee for a term ending June 30, 2013, following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried. The board voted in separate motions to appoint Helen Mohan,
Judy Seawell, Richard Seawell, Bert Patrick, Charles Prevost, Carol Steed, and
Kay Davis to the Historical Committee, following motions made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motions carried.
Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to appoint Rita Booth to the Historical
Committee with a term to expire June 30, 2014. One aye. Four nays. Motion
denied. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, Commissioners McGraw, Barber and Caddell voted
nay. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to appoint Major Killian to the
Historical Committee with a term to expire June 30, 2014. Two ayes. Three nays.
Motion denied. Commissioners Caddell, Barber, and McGraw voted nay.
Commissioner Caddell suggested placing an advertisement in the newspaper in
order to generate interested persons in applying to serve on the Historical
Committee. John Chappell remarked he could give the town free advertising by
including information in his article about tonight’s board meeting.
   E.   Dr. David Bruton addressed the board concerning the Carthage Fabrics
Property, informing the board that Mr. John O’Malley has just recently
purchased the property. Dr. Bruton explained that Mr. O’Malley will be leasing
out different portions of the building. Dr. Bruton detailed his plans for
approximately 13,000 sq. ft. for Connectinc. a non-profit organization that
uses “old fashion social work using modern communication technology”. Dr.
Bruton remarked that he will employ approximately 24 people. Mr. John O’Malley
spoke briefly concerning his recent purchase of the property and clean up and
removal of an old oil tank. Mr. Ray Ogden addressed the board concerning the NC
Rural Grant that will help pay for the proposed renovations of the building.
Mr. Ogden explained that Partners in Progress will administer the grant. Mr.
Ogden informed the board they need approval from the town. The board appointed
Town Manager Carol Sparks to apply for and administer the grant on behalf of
the town, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   David McKew from Hydro Management spoke concerning the Haloacetic Acid
Contaminant Level Violation that the town experienced during the fourth quarter
of 2009. There was much discussion concerning this matter. Commissioner Barber
asked if there were any preventative measures that could be taken to keep this
from happening. Mr. McKew stated that there were a couple of things that they
could try to prevent this from happening, such as aeration, and a chemical feed
of aluminum sulfate. Commissioner Caddell remarked that we needed to have a
plan of action due to the possibility that the numbers may be increased during
the summer months.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved the NC DOT Sidewalk Agreement following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes.
Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in April. The Carthage Historical Committee
Meeting Minutes for March 22, 2010, and April 13, 2010 are attached, which are
and do become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Barber spoke about the fuel tanks located at Paul Cummings
building, remarking that we need to make sure the Fire Protection Code is being
followed. It was recommended that Town Manager Carol Sparks write a letter to
the county concerning the fuel tanks and the Fire Protection Code. Commissioner
McGraw asked that the board consider funding some of the expenses for the
Museum in next year’s budget. Mayor Stewart remarked there is a new business
looking to locate in Carthage. Mayor Stewart stated he had recently spoken at
the League of Women Voters at Little River Golf Club. Commissioner Dowdy
inquired about a speed limit sign close to the Habitat development.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Bert Patrick mentioned the Carthage Historical Committee Buggy Festival Golf
Tournament. John Chappell reported that Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
was now a Robbins Town Commissioner.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 9:03 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
____________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
MAY 17, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 17, 2010
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday May 17, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lisa
Caddell, Lee McGraw, Artie Barber, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. 
   Also in attendance was John Chappell, reporter for the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 19, 2010
   B.   Budget Amendments #10, #11
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Barber inquired about the e-mail from Ms. Russell. Town Manager Carol Sparks
reported that she had forwarded the e-mail to the Sheriff’s Department and has
not heard anything further. Commissioner Barber asked if anyone had been in
contact with Paul Cummings. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that Louis
Blanchard the Fire Code Enforcement Officer for Moore County is leaving his
county position on May 21, 2010, but that she would look into the matter
further.   
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved the Adoption of a Code of Ethics following a motion
made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes.
Motion carried.   
   B.   Discussion began concerning the proposed amendment to the Water & Sewer
Use Ordinance. There was some discussion about the wording in the ordinance
concerning the compliance of existing restaurants. Town Manager Carol Sparks
stated that if an existing restaurant ever was out of compliance by having a
problem that involved the town, then they would have to adhere to the ordinance
and become compliant. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the town would
work with them on an individual basis. Much discussion followed. It was decided
to table the ordinance in order for Town Manager Carol Sparks to revise the
wording concerning the compliance of existing restaurants. The Amendment to
Water & Sewer Use Ordinance was tabled following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Discussion began concerning the proposed Ordinance to Demolish Mr.
Robert Page’s house located at 105 Ray Street. Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke
concerning the dilapidated condition of the house. There was some discussion
concerning the possibility of burning the house. Chief Brian Tyner is to look
into whether or not there is asbestos in the house. Commissioner Barber
remarked that due to the close proximity of other buildings and trees
surrounding the property, he did not want the town to burn the house.
Commissioner Dowdy requested that Town Manager Carol Sparks get quotes for
tearing the house down. Commissioner Caddell inquired about the legal
ramifications for the town, should the demolition be necessary. Town Manager
Carol Sparks replied that the town has complied with every legal aspect, and
that even though Mr. Page has refused certified letters from the town
concerning the house, Town Attorney Doug Gill has advised that he is considered
to be legally served. Commissioner Barber asked if their may be any historical
significance to the house. Mayor Stewart remarked that the house is in such bad
shape, it is beyond repair. Commissioner Caddell asked if there was any grant
money available to rehab the home. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the
town can not receive any grants for that because the house is not owed by the
town. The Board adopted the Ordinance Directing Town Manager to Demolish the
Premises at 105 Ray Street following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. Four ayes. One nay. Commissioner Barber voted
nay. Motion carried.
   D.   The board set the date for the June Budget Workshop for Tuesday June 8,
2010 at 9:00 a.m. at the McDonald Building  following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   After a brief discussion the board voted to deny the use of the
McDonald Building free of charge by the Sandhills Farm To Table Cooperative
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in May. Copies of the Minutes of the
Historical Committee Meeting were not furnished. Town Manager Carol Sparks
stated that she would like to send a letter to the Planning Board Members
requesting that they notify the office by the Wednesday before the regular
monthly meetings if they are planning to attend the meeting.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Stewart remarked the board had received an application from Dora Ann
Maness to serve on the Historical Committee. The board voted to appoint Dora
Ann Maness to the Carthage Historical Committee with a term due to expire on
June 30, 2013, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner McGraw brought
attention to the previous vote not to reappoint Major Killian and Rita Booth to
the Historical Committee, remarking that he would like to revisit this issue
and vote again. Commissioner McGraw made a motion to reappoint Major Killian to
the Historical Committee with a term due to expire on June 30, 2013.
Commissioner Dowdy seconded. Three ayes. Two nays. Commissioners Barber and
Caddell voted nay. Motion carried. Commissioner McGraw made a motion to
reappoint Rita Booth to the Historical Committee with a term due to expire on
June 30, 2013. Commissioner Dowdy seconded. Two ayes. Three nays. Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley and Commissioners Barber and Caddell voted nay. Motion denied.
Commissioner Barber inquired about a new website for the town. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that money will be allocated in the new budget for a new
website. Commissioner Dowdy spoke concerning the Police Department, remarking
that they do a wonderful job but sometimes he sees the patrol cars sitting in
one place for an extended period of time. Commissioner Dowdy asked if they
could possibly make more of a presence patrolling other areas of town for
speeding violations. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated she will discuss this
with Police Chief McKenzie. Commissioner McGraw inquired about cross walks
around the Courthouse circle downtown. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that
the DOT has in the past resisted requests to put up cross walks, however they
will be installing some around the circle in the near future. Commissioner
Caddell thanked everyone involved with the recent Buggy Festival, remarking it
was a wonderful festival. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated she really enjoyed the
“Name that Movie” Buggy Festival fundraiser.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell noted that he will make a reference that applications are
being accepted for the Carthage Historical Committee in his article concerning
the town board meeting. John Chappell reported that the Flying Tiger Restaurant
will be opening the end of May first of June.
XII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 7:53 p.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor  
JUNE 8, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JUNE 8, 2010
9:00 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Wednesday June 8, 2010 at 9:00 a.m.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Lisa Caddell, and Lee McGraw. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was to review the proposed 2010-2011 FY
Budget.
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks reviewed the proposed budget highlights, including
the Property Tax Valuation, Fire District Valuation, General Fund Revenues and
Expenditures, Powell Bill Revenues and Expenditures, and Water & Sewer Revenues
and Expenditures.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that the Health Insurance cost will
increase 17%, Worker’s Compensation will increase 58%, Property/Liability
Insurance will increase less that 1%, and Retirement will increase 1.55%.
   Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips spoke concerning the
current Auditors, remarking that she is very pleased with them.
   Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips stated the proposed
budget has a recommended $2.00 increase to the availability fee for water,
making it $14.00.
   There was discussion concerning why some of the proposed revenue amounts
were down.
   Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that Moore County is asking the
town to sign a new contract for the sewer. The contract would be for twenty
years. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that in order for the county to receive
the loan for the upgrades to the sewer plant in Addor, they have to have
guaranteed revenue for twenty years. Some discussion followed.
   There was much discussion concerning various line items.
   The board took a break at 10:20 a.m.
   Mayor Stewart reconvened the meeting at 10:45 a.m. The board continued to
review the various line items of each department. There was discussion
concerning changing the limb route from once a week to every two weeks. It was
decided to change the limb route to every two weeks, to be effective July 1,
2010, with notices going on the June water bills, and a flyer to be posted at
the Municipal Building, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and
seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   It was noted that the proposed budget for FY 2010-2011 includes a Fund
Balance Appropriation of $84,752.00.
   There was discussion concerning the Cemetery, and possibly requiring vaults
for burial. Town Manager Carol Sparks is to place this item on the June meeting
Agenda.
   Mayor Tom Stewart adjourned the meeting at 11:20 a.m. following a motion
made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes.
Motion carried.
__________________________         ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
JUNE 21, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 21, 2010
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday June 21, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lisa
Caddell, Lee McGraw, Artie Barber, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Concerned citizens present were Donavaughn Carlisle, Roland Gilliam, Mary
Prevost, Charles Prevost, Kay Boggs and Prissy Newell.
   Also in attendance was John Chappell, reporter for the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the 2010-2011 FY Budget at
7:02 p.m. There were no comments or questions from the public. Mayor Stewart
closed the Public Hearing at 7:03 p.m.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 17, 2010
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 8, 2010
   C.   Budget Transfers #B & #C
   D.   Lighthouse Assembly of God Church – Certificate of Recognition
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.   
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board adopted the 2010-2011 FY Budget and Budget Ordinance
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.   
   B.   After a brief discussion concerning the length of the contract which is
twenty years, the board voted to approve the Moore County Sewer Contract
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.   
   C.   The board voted to reappoint Bob Hunt & Max Muse as ETJ members to the
Carthage Planning Board following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and
seconded by Commissioner Caddell. A letter will be sent to the Moore County
Board of Commissioners requesting approval. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   D.   Discussion concerning requiring vaults in the Cross Hill Cemetery
began, with Commissioner Dowdy stating he thought that the requirement should
be for the new section only. Commissioner Barber stated he felt the possibility
of requiring liners may serve the same purpose as the vaults, but at possibly a
lower cost. It was decided to table this issue so that Town Manager Carol
Sparks can research this possibility, and report her findings back to the
board. The board voted to table the issue requiring burial vaults in the Cross
Hill Cemetery, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.   
   E.   Roland Gilliam addressed the board concerning the James Rogers
McConnell Marker, remarking that he would like to move the marker to the
airport. Mr. Gilliam gave an over view of the history of the marker, reporting
that the French originally gave it to the James Rogers McConnell Hospital
formally located on Farm Life Road. Mr. Gilliam reported that when the hospital
was closed, it was moved to the hospital in Pinehurst. At a later undetermined
date it was moved to Carthage. Mr. Gilliam stated that he felt more people
would see the monument if it was moved to the airport. Mr. Gilliam reported
that if he was allowed to move the monument, he would like to erect a roof over
it and have some pictures displayed. There was much discussion among the board
concerning the public and the town always having access to the monument. Mary
Prevost addressed the board concerning Mr. Gilliam’s request. Ms. Prevost
reported that she was responsible for the State Highway Marker honoring Mr.
McConnell being placed in front of the Community Building in 2009. Ms. Prevost
remarked that the DOT informed her that the highway marker can not have any
connection to a private enterprise or business. Ms. Prevost indicated that she
felt that moving the monument may jeopardize the State Highway Marker. Ms.
Prevost stated she was afraid the DOT may remove it if the monument were moved.
Ms. Prevost stated she would like the monument to stay at its present location
that would be what is best for the citizens and the town. Much discussion
followed. Charles Prevost, who is a member of the Carthage Historical Committee
spoke concerning the first request from Mr. Gilliam to have the monument moved,
a few years ago. Mr. Prevost stated that the Historical Committee advised the
Board of Commissioners at that time that they did not want the monument to be
moved. Mr. Prevost remarked that the Historical Committee feels the same way
now; the monument should stay at its present location. Mr. Prevost felt that a
duplicate could be made, and it would serve the same purpose for Mr. Gilliam as
the original would. More discussion followed, with several of the Commissioners
stating they felt a legal document outlining the specifics should be drawn up
if it was decided to move the monument. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley made a motion to
move the monument; at no cost to the town; money to be placed in escrow so that
the monument could be moved back at any time in the future; a legal easement
for the property that the monument will be placed on will be drawn up for the
town; and a legal contract to be drawn up to outline all these stipulations.
Much discussion followed. No second was made. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley withdrew her
motion. It was decided to table the request and have the town attorney draw up
the agreement first, before a decision would be made to move the monument,
following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.   
   F.   Donavaughn Carlisle who resides at 510 Summitt Street addressed the
board concerning a visibility problem at the end of his driveway. Summitt
Street curves at the intersection of Davis Street and Mr. Carlisle lives right
across from the intersection. Mr. Carlisle went on to explain that years ago,
DOT placed a mirror in the tree across the street, so that residents at that
location could see the traffic. Mr. Carlisle stated the mirror has fallen out
of the tree numerous times over the years and he would like to request a more
permanent solution. Mr. Carlisle remarked that he would like to mount a mirror
on a post, like a mailbox. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that she has spoken
to Sarah Foster with DOT and she said she would not recommend placing a mirror
on a post because there would be a chance of headlight reflections that might
cause an accident. There was much discussion concerning this matter. It was
decided that the town would work with him in solving this problem, Town Manager
Carol Sparks is to get in touch with DOT and ask for guidance concerning this
matter, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   The board agreed to the yard debris pickup amendment, changing weekly
leaf and limb pickup to once every two weeks, to be effective July 1, 2010,
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Caddell.  
   H.   Discussion began concerning the Water Shortage Response Plan, with
Commissioner Barber inquiring about the Stage 5 requirements that customers are
only allowed to use water at the minimum required for public health protection,
and fire fighting is the only allowable outdoor water use. In this section it
stipulates that drought surcharges are increased to five (5) times the normal
water rate. Commissioner Barber questioned whether or not the town would
enforce this requirement. Commissioner Barber questioned the increase to five
times the normal rate. Mayor Stewart remarked that if the town passed the Water
Shortage Response Plan, all requirements in it would be enforced. After much
discussion the board approved the Water Shortage Response Plan, following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. Four
ayes. One nay. Motion carried. Commissioner Barber voted nay.   
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The board voted to approve the Carthage Fire Department/Northwest
Pocket Mutual Aid Agreement following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the Minutes of the Planning Board June 3, 2010 and Historical
Committee Meeting June 8, 2010 are attached, which are and do become part of
these minutes.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner McGraw remarked how good the cemetery looks, and that he
appreciates the Public Works hard work. Commissioner McGraw also commented on
Archie Kelly’s building and Sherrie’s Flower Shoppe, stating how good they
look. Commissioner Barber asked about the water line at Hillcrest. Town Manager
Carol Sparks remarked there was a gentleman’s agreement made. Commissioner
Caddell inquired about cost estimates for the demolition of the Page House on
Ray Street. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied that the money is not available
in this year’s budget. Commissioner Caddell asked for clarification on the
Historical Committee Minutes about the July meeting. Town Manager Carol Sparks
reported that the meeting is actually a social event, not a regular meeting.
Commissioner Dowdy stated that the board needs a current list of all the
officers of the newly appointed Historical Committee Members. Commissioner
Barber spoke concerning the town’s right of way on the streets in Carthage.
Commissioner Barber brought attention to the dumpster located behind Hinesley’s
Heating & Air which is sitting on the right of way. Commissioner Barber spoke
concerning numerous items located in the right of ways of town streets and
asked that Town Manager Carol Sparks research this matter and report her
findings. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that Code Enforcement Officer John
Gibbons has spoken to Hinesley’s concerning the dumpster.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Oudia Newell addressed the board concerning an incident that recently
happened concerning the unauthorized removal of ten of her trees on the town’s
easement of the sewer line at her property located at 505 McNeill Street. Ms.
Newell went on to detail the events that transpired, informing the board that
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis was arguing with her, and was very
disrespectful to her. Ms. Newell stated that some of her cut trees have been
returned to her, but that she was missing three. Ms. Newell remarked that the
trees were a hundred years old and should not have been cut down. Town Manager
Carol Sparks stated that she had called Ms. Newell a few months ago to get
permission to remove one tree. Ms. Newell detailed that she had a log kit sold
and that she was going to use the trees for that purpose, but they had to be
cut into thirty foot lengths. The trees cut by the town were twelve feet in
length. Ms. Newell stated that she was asking for compensation for her trees.
Mayor Stewart stated that the town is in the process of investigating this
matter and that they will get back in touch with her when all the facts have
been collected.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   The board moved into closed session at 8:40 p.m.; N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(6) to consider the qualifications, competence, performance, or condition of
appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer, following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board resumed the regular meeting at 10:12 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Stewart remarked there was no action
taken.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 10:13 following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
____________________________            ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk         Tom Stewart, Mayor
JULY 19, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 19, 2010
7:00 P.M.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday July 19, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lisa
Caddell, Lee McGraw, Artie Barber, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
Concerned citizens present were Tommy Prickett, Ethlyn Taylor, Roland Gilliam,
Mary Prevost, and Charles Prevost.
Also in attendance were Bill Lester from Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, and John
Chappell, reporter for the Pilot
Newspaper.                                              
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the closeout of the CDBG
Grant for Habitat for Humanity at 7:01 p.m. Bill Lester addressed the board and
stated that a Public Hearing is required as part of the closeout for the CDBG
Grant for Habitat, in order to give the public an opportunity to ask questions
or make comments. There were no comments or questions from the public. Mayor
Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:02 p.m.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 21, 2010
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session June 21, 2010
   C.   Budget Amendments #12, #13, #14, #15
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks remarked that she had received a phone call from John Sarver of
Providence Place. He reported to her that they have received their funding and
will begin the project soon. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that she would
like Director of Public Works Rocky Davis to come up and give a report to the
board in regard to some issues that have recently come to light concerning a
phone call and an email he had received concerning complaints made about the
town’s sewer. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis read from an email that had
been sent to the entire Board of the Lee County Commissioners from Wanda Howard
saying that she had received information from Bert Patrick that the Town of
Carthage was dumping raw sewage into Phillips Creek. Mr. Davis read the email
which stated “this is a great concern and I feel that you should look into
this”. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis remarked that a later email
corrected the creek name to Killets Creek. The email went on to state that Bert
Patrick has been in touch with the clean water supervisor in Fayetteville. Mr.
Davis reported that Belinda Henson is the clean water supervisor that Ms.
Patrick had been in touch with. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis went on to
report that a team had come out to inspect the complaint, went over everything,
took pictures and found no problems anywhere at all. Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis stated that he and the Public Works crew have checked both sealed
manhole covers and the two ravines below the lagoons, and both were bone dry.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis informed the board that he and his crew
are checking it every day. Furthermore, Mr. Davis reported another claim by
Bert Patrick that the wetlands on the proposed Moore County Public Safety/
Detention site are being compromised is false. Mr. Davis stated that Moore
County is not disturbing the wetlands; everything Ms. Patrick is reporting is
false. There was much discussion of the board, with Commissioner McGraw
remarking this makes us look bad. Commissioner Caddell inquired about
trespassing on town’s treatment land and whether or not it was criminal.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis stated that the land is posted with No
Trespassing signs, however, he has only had to ask some fishermen to leave.
Commissioner Barber stated that we have an individual that continues to make
false accusations and that to keep that individual on a town appointed
committee is wrong. Commissioner Barber made a motion to remove Bert Patrick
from the Carthage Historical Committee, seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried. Town Manager Carol Sparks will draft a letter to be sent
to Ms. Patrick. Town Manager Carol Sparks will consult with Town Attorney Doug
Gill concerning attending a future closed session for legal matters pertaining
to this issue.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board began discussion concerning the Resolution of Support for the
Exploration of a County-Wide Water/Sewer Authority. Mayor Stewart remarked that
Moore County has not participated in the meetings concerning this issue. There
was much discussion concerning who is participating in the Water Task Force
meetings. Mayor Stewart remarked that all the municipalities are represented
and the general consensus is that they all are in favor of the Resolution. Much
discussion followed. Commissioner Caddell remarked she would like to wait until
the August 5, 2010 meeting of the Elected Officials before making any decision.
Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the Water Task Force would like to have
all the municipalities adopt the Resolution of Support before the August
meeting of the Elected Officials. Discussion followed. It was decided to adopt
the Resolution of Support for the Exploration of a County-Wide Water Authority
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that Tommy Prickett was here to
address the board concerning the issue of cemetery vaults and liners. Mr.
Prickett spoke concerning the various types of vaults, remarking that there are
concrete, metal and plastic ones available. Mr. Prickett stated that liners are
similar to a septic tank, they would not hold up under the weight of vehicles,
or heavy equipment and that requiring vaults would maintain the integrity of
the cemetery. However Mr. Prickett stated that a concrete liner would hold up
under most weights. Mr. Prickett remarked that he was in favor of the town
requiring something substantial. Commissioner Dowdy inquired about the cost.
Mr. Prickett sated that some of the vaults start at $1000.000 and go up. There
was some discussion concerning what other cemeteries require. Mr. Prickett
informed the board the only local cemetery that he knows that requires liners
is Pinelawn, all of the municipal cemeteries do not. John Chappell asked about
green burials. There was some discussion concerning green burials. The board
thanked Mr. Prickett for all he does and for coming to speak. After much
discussion Commissioner Barber stated he would like to continue to table this
issue.
   B.   Discussion began concerning the proposed amendment to the Water/Sewer
Ordinance to add the Fats, Oils, and Grease Regulations.
   Commissioner Barber inquired about the annual inspection fee of $50.00.
   Commissioner Barber voiced that he felt that anyone who is paying taxes
should not have to pay an annual fee for inspection, however if a reinspection
had to be done he felt they should have to pay the $50.00. There was much
discussion that followed amongst the board concerning the fees as well as, the
time period that a restaurant that was not in compliance would have to become
compliant. After a lengthy discussion, it was decided to table the amendment to
the Water/Sewer Ordinance, so that more work can be done to the wording and
fees in the amendment, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in July.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Barber inquired about the Robert Page house. Town Manager Carol
Sparks stated Mr. Page had contacted Town Attorney Doug Gill and asked to have
sixty days to do repairs to the house. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the
board that she told Attorney Doug Gill she would speak to the board concerning
this matter and would need a list of what repairs he planned to do within two
weeks. Commissioner Barber spoke concerning the right-of-ways remarking that
the town needs to address the issue of so many things being located within the
town’s right-of-ways, as well children playing with basketball goals in the
middle of the streets. Furthermore, Commissioner Barber stated he would like to
see the sidewalk on Rockingham completed. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that
she can get estimates and check into possible grant money. Commissioner Dowdy
inquired about grant money for small neighborhood parks. Commissioner Dowdy
informed the board that Habitat for Humanity has a green area within the
Habitat Subdivision that they could possibly turn into a public park. Town
Manager Carol Sparks will investigate this matter. Commissioner Barber informed
the board that he has a possible Proclamation, for the Union Pines Band, who
recently performed in Washington, DC (in the works). Commissioner McGraw spoke
concerning items in yards, front porches, dogs running at large and the issue
of basketball goals located in the streets. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked
that these things are very hard to regulate, especially the dogs running at
large. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the town does not have an animal
control officer, or a place to house dogs, so we are dependant upon Moore
County Animal Control to handle complaints. Commissioner Caddell inquired about
the Community Building, stating that Friend to Friend is possibly moving and
may be interested in leasing the building. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied
that at one time the building was leased however, after the renovations were
done, the intent was to keep it a Community Building, and not for full time
leasing. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that any time a board
member sees anything that needs to be addressed, to let her know and she will
take care of it.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Mary Prevost addressed the board concerning the possible move of the
McConnell Marker, stating that she has done some research on this matter. Ms.
Prevost passed out copies of General Statue 160A-266 concerning the sale of
property of a governmental unit. Ms. Prevost stated that she spoke to Frieda
Bluestein of the UNC School of Government and her opinion was that even if this
was a loan to the Gilliam McConnell Airport, it should be treated in the same
manner as the sale of property. Ms. Prevost remarked that if the value of the
marker was determined to be over $30,000.00 an appraisal needs to be done. Ms.
Prevost informed the board she has been in contact with the French Embassy in
Washington, DC. to inquire about the possible desires of the French in regard
to the possible relocation of the marker. However, the person she needs to
speak to is on vacation until next week. Ms. Prevost spoke concerning the town
securing the rights to public access if it is moved to another location. Much
discussion followed. Commissioner McGraw stated that his only concern was that
it not be moved some where off the road, where the general public would not see
it. More discussion followed, and there was no decision made concerning this
issue. John Chappell spoke concerning the Resolution of Support for the
Exploration of a County Wide Water/Sewer Authority, remarking that he thinks
the Robbins Town Board is in favor of the Resolution. John Chappell stated that
the newly formed Moore County Gang Awareness Task Force would be available to
come and make a presentation to the board.
XII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   The board moved into closed session at 8:35 p.m.; N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a)
(6) to consider the qualifications, competence, performance, or condition of
appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer, following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board resumed the regular meeting at 8:55 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Stewart remarked there was no action
taken.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:55 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
____________________________            ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk         Tom Stewart, Mayor
AUGUST 16, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 16, 2010
7:00 P.M.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday August 16, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lisa
Caddell, Lee McGraw, Artie Barber, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Lt.
Rick Bickel and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
Concerned citizens present were Roland Gilliam and John McDonald.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 19, 2010
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session July19, 2010
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that she would like Police Chief McKenzie to discuss the
possibility of adopting an ordinance that permits or regulates golf carts.
Chief McKenzie spoke concerning a model ordinance that would regulate golf
carts on public streets in Carthage. There was some discussion among the board
concerning the effect this may have on Little River and private streets. Chief
McKenzie explained that the ordinance only applies to highways and public
streets. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that if the board would like to
consider adopting the ordinance it could be placed on the September Meeting
Agenda for their consideration. It was the consensus of the board to consider
the Golf Cart Ordinance at the September regular meeting. Commissioner Barber
inquired about the status of the proposed new town website. Town Manager Carol
Sparks stated that Heath McKenzie of McKenzie Creations was working on a model
of the new website.   
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Due to a conflict of two of the board members, the board voted to
change the date of the September 20, 2010 Regular Board of Commissioners
Meeting to Tuesday September 21, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   After a brief discussion it was decided to set a Public Hearing date of
Tuesday September 21, 2010 at 7:00 to consider the Text Amendment to SR 10
Shelters for the Homeless, Section B of the Town of Carthage Development
Ordinance following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved the Amendment to the Water & Sewer Ordinance – Fat,
Oil & Grease Regulations, as presented, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke concerning the McConnell Marker and the
possible move to the Gilliam McConnell Airport. Town Manager Carol Sparks
reported that Town Attorney Doug Gill stated that a loan or lease of property
should be treated the same as the sale of property. Town Manager Carol Sparks
stated that the board was in receipt of copies of the numerous emails
concerning the monument, copies attached, which are and do become part of these
minutes. There was much discussion amongst the board concerning this issue.
Commissioner McGraw stated he felt like the board does not have sufficient
information to make a decision at this time. Commissioner Barber stated he just
received copies of all the emails concerning the monument and would like to
have more time to review them. Roland Gilliam remarked that he is willing to
donate the property that the monument would be placed on to the town. Roland
Gilliam stated that if the monument is moved he needs to have time to make
preparations for the dedication and air show that he would like to hold.
Commissioner Barber stated that the board would like to come to the airport and
view the proposed location for the monument. Commissioner Barber asked Mr.
Gilliam if he would mark the proposed site. Commissioner Barber stated he had
received an estimate for moving the monument; depending on whether or not it
was set in concrete the cost could be any where from $500 or below if it was
not set in concrete; or possibly as much as $1000 if it was set with concrete.
Roland Gilliam stated he would make a donation to the town to cover the cost of
moving the monument. Much discussion followed. It was decided to table a
decision concerning moving the monument until the next regular meeting in
September, following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in August and no minutes were received from
the Historical Committee.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Barber asked Director of Public Works Rocky Davis about the
fire hydrant near Stoney Hill Church on Vass Carthage Road. Commissioner Barber
was concerned about the fire hydrant being out of service, as well as, the
proposed cost to replace the hydrant. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
answered that due to the cost of the valves and all the work involved in
getting it back on line the cost may be close to $5000. Commissioner McGraw
spoke concerning the town’s sign ordinance, remarking that it needs to be
reviewed. Commissioner Caddell spoke concerning the Union Pines Marching Band
remarking that when Congress is back in session in September Congressman Howard
Coble will present a Proclamation to recognize their appearance in Washington,
DC during the Fourth of July Parade this year.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Town Manager Carol Sparks inquired about the board meeting with
representatives of Land Core to discuss proposed plans for the Magnolia Hill
property at Little River. It was decided that the board would hold a Special
Meeting on Thursday August 26, 2010 at 6:30 at the McDonald Building to meet
with Land Core, following a motion made by Commissioner Caddell and seconded by
Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   The board went into a closed session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5) to
establish, or instruct the public body’s staff or negotiating agents concerning
the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body in negotiating (i)
the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed contract for the
acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or lease, following
a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board moved into closed session at 8:01 p.m. The
board moved back into open session at 8:11 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Caddell. Commissioner Dowdy seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Stewart remarked there was no action to be taken.
IX.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Commissioner Caddell made a motion to adjourn. Commissioner Dowdy seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:12 p.m.
____________________________         ____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
AUGUST 26, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 26, 2010
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Thursday August 26, 2010 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., and Lisa Caddell. A quorum. Commissioner
Lee McGraw was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, and Director of Public Works Rocky
Davis.
   Present from Landcore Group were Blaine East, Alex Lamarre and P. Dan Pabst,
PE.
   The purpose of the Special Meeting was a presentation by Landcore Group
concerning plans for Magnolia Hill at Little River. The proposed project is
called the Village at Little River.
   Mr. Blaine East began by presenting a power point presentation. The
presentation included detailing past and present projects that Landcore Group
is involved with. Mr. East detailed the plans for the Village at Little River
such as multi-family apartments; senior living facility; retail shops;
restaurants; bed & breakfast; 32 room inn; executive center; wedding barn;
winery & vineyard; Scandinavian spa; and an outdoor amphitheater.
   Mr. East went on to give more specific details concerning the proposed
project, explaining that there are five different Phases, with Phase I which
includes the catering hall, event center and winery to begin later this year.
   There were some questions from the board. Mr. East spoke concerning the
sewer system, stating that Landcore would build a self contained sewer plant
and hire a private company to operate the plant. There was some discussion
concerning this issue.
   Mr. East discussed the Rural Center grants that are based on job creation
that Landcore would like to apply for. Mr. East remarked that Hobbs, Upchurch &
Associates would be writing the proposed grants and would be responsible for
over seeing and administering the grants. There was some discussion.
   Mr. East stated that as decided years ago, Landcore would build a Public
Safety building to be located on the site, for Police and Fire. There was some
discussion concerning this.
   The board voted to allow Landcore Group to move forward as soon as possible
with the application for the Rural Center Grant, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   The board voted to add to the agenda discussion concerning the NCDOT
Transportation Committee, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. Town Manager Carol Sparks explained that the
NCDOT is requesting that a small group study the proposed Hwy 24/27 Bypass and
come up with a plan. The board began discussion concerning this issue.
   There was a lengthy discussion between Commissioner Barber and Commissioner
Dowdy concerning the number of people the commissioners could nominate to serve
on the committee. The consensus of the board was that this item be placed on
the September 21, 2010 Regular Meeting Agenda, with each Commissioner
submitting names to serve on this small committee. The board will vote on the
names at the September meeting.
   Commissioner Barber made a motion to adjourn. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried. The board adjourned at 8:46 p.m.
____________________________         ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 21, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 21, 2010
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Tuesday September 21, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Lisa Caddell, Lee McGraw, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, and
Police Major Bart Davis.
   Concerned citizens present were Roland Gilliam, John McDonald, Peggy Marsh,
Carol Steed, Member of the Carthage Historical Committee, and John Chappell,
reporter for the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Caddell led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing to consider the Text Amendment
S.R. 10 Shelters for the Homeless, Section B of The Town of Carthage
Development Ordinance at 7:02 p.m. The Public Hearing was to consider the
proposed text amendment to the Development Ordinance; Special Requirement #10
Shelters for the Homeless, Section B of the Carthage Development Ordinance – No
facility shall be located within one-half mile (2,640 feet) of any existing
homeless shelter or residentially zoned property, as measured from the nearest
property line of the lot on which the proposed shelter is to be located to the
nearest lot line of an existing homeless shelter or residentially zoned
property. Mayor Stewart asked if anyone wished to speak concerning this issue.
There was no one to speak. Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:03 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 16, 2010
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session August 16, 2010
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting August 26, 2010
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks asked the board members if they would like their home phone
numbers and email addresses listed on the new website. The consensus of the
board was to just have their home phone numbers listed, not the email
addresses. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that there are some problems with
the museum building and she asked Director of Public Works Rocky Davis to give
a brief report. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis stated that the building
where the museum is housed has some structural damage; the back porch is sunken
and separated from the main building, and the back deck is very deteriorated,
the roof is in need of repair and there is no flashing. In addition Public
Works Director Rocky Davis stated that some of the walls inside are damp and
some of the beams are sagging. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported she was going
to get estimates on the repairs and she is having a company check the building
for mold.
   Commissioner Barber spoke concerning a problem with his water bill.
   Commissioner Barber inquired about what the procedures are for a citizen
that has a problem. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the town has a leak
procedure, however if it is something other than a leak, she informs the
citizen that they may come before the board with their problem or issue.
Commissioner Barber declared that he did not know how he could be billed for
water usage when there was a jumper in his meter box and his meter was not even
in that box, it was discovered in the back flow box. Commissioner Barber stated
that he would pay his water bill, however he was paying it under duress.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis spoke concerning this issue, remarking
that when the jumper was installed, the meter was in the meter box underneath
the jumper. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis reported that when
Commissioner Barber questioned his bill, the water meter was discovered in the
back flow box. Commissioner Barber inquired about a policy for discrepancies
such as this. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the only formal policy
that the town has is the leak adjustment policy, all other matters may come
before the Board of Commissioners. After a brief discussion the board voted to
adjust Commissioner Barber’s August water bill to the flat rate for water and
sewer, plus trash for a total of $40.00, following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. Four ayes. One
abstention. Motion carried. Commissioner Barber had abstained. Commissioner
Barber asked Director of Public Works Rocky Davis how often the dead end lines
are flushed. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis replied that the lines are
usually flushed once a week.
   Police Chief Chris McKenzie spoke concerning a new policy for checking the
street lights, stating that the patrol will complete a report on street light
outages on the first Wednesday of every month.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board voted to approve the proposed text amendment to the
Development Ordinance; Special Requirement # 10 Shelters for the Homeless,
Section B of the Carthage Development Ordinance – No facility shall be located
within one-half mile (2,640 feet) of any existing homeless shelter or
residentially zoned property, as measured from the nearest property line of the
lot on which the proposed shelter is to be located to the nearest lot line of
an existing homeless shelter or residentially zoned property, following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Discussion began concerning setting a date to hear Richard W. Frye’s
Appeal of Administrator decision concerning phone sweepstakes machines. Town
Manager Carol Sparks reported that she would like to schedule the date at a
time when Town Attorney Doug Gill would be able to attend the meeting. After a
brief discussion it was decided to ask Town Attorney Doug Gill about Wednesday
October 6, and Wednesday October 13, 2010 at 6:30 p.m. Town Manger Carol Sparks
will get in touch with Attorney Doug Gill and report back to the board. 
   C.   After discussion with Police Chief Chris McKenzie the board voted to
adopt the Ordinance Permitting/Regulating Golf Carts on Public Streets
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board voted to appoint Commissioner Dowdy as the designated Voting
Delegate for the NCLM Annual Conference October 24-26, 2010, following a motion
made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All Ayes.
Motion carried. The board voted to appoint Commissioner McGraw as the Alternate
Voting Delegate for the NCLM Annual Conference following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   E.   Discussion began concerning the clearing of the right-of-way at the
intersection of Rockingham Street and Saunders Street. Commissioner Barber
spoke concerning the view at the intersection on the Saunders Street side,
remarking that the view is blocked due to the bushes and you have to pull half
way out into the intersection in order to see. Commissioner Barber stated that
other towns don’t allow anything higher that 3’ in height to be located in the
sight lane. There was discussion concerning cars parking in the right-of-way.
Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the lady that lives at 106 Rockingham
located at the intersection planted the bushes to prevent cars from parking in
front of her house. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that the town
could put up no parking signs if the bushes are removed. Much discussion
followed. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to table this issue until the
homeowner can be contacted and Sgt. Gibbons can talk with the lady that lives
in the house concerning removing the bushes. Commissioner Dowdy withdrew his
motion. Commissioner McGraw made a motion to have the Public Works Department
remove the bushes and no parking signs placed along the right-of-way between
the stop signs at the intersections. Sgt. Gibbons is to speak to the lady that
lives at 106 Rockingham Street. Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   E.   Police Chief Chris McKenzie addressed the board concerning the recent
Moore County Agricultural Fair. Police Chief McKenzie explained that due to the
tight budget and manpower issues it was mutually agreed, after consultation
with Town Manager Carol Sparks and Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda
Phillips, that the Police Department would not provide separate security for
the Moore County Fair. Police Chief McKenzie stressed that the Police
Department would be available on an “on call basis”. Chief McKenzie stated he
then sent a letter explaining this and what options would be available to the
organizers of the Moore County Fair. Commissioner Barber remarked that he felt
the Police Department should have been at the recent Fair at a minimum to
conduct public relations, hand out pencils and speak about drug prevention.
Police Chief McKenzie remarked that he was in favor of having a presence at the
fair for public relations, but not for security purposes. Commissioner Dowdy
remarked that he was concerned about the late notice that was given to the fair
organizers. Much discussion followed. After a lengthy discussion concerning the
reasons for providing the security, etc. it was decided to table this issue,
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   After a brief discussion Commissioner McGraw made a motion to approve
Roland Gilliam’s request to move the James McConnell Marker to the Gilliam/
McConnell Airport contingent upon the following:
      1.   Mr. Gilliam deeds over the tract of land on which the marker will be
located at the airport along with a deeded easement to the tract to the Town of
Carthage.
      2.   Mr. Gilliam pays the expenses for the professional moving of the
marker and repair of existing land.
      3.   Mr. Gilliam contributes the amount of moving expenses to the Town of
Carthage General Fund to be used to move the marker from the airport to other
town property in the future if needed. If the marker is moved to another town
owned property, the land will be deeded back to Roland Gilliam or heirs.
      4.   The airport location is to be reviewed by the Town Board of
Commissioners every seven years beginning September 21, 2010. Commissioner
Barber seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board made the following appointments to the NCDOT Transportation
Committee: Mayor Pro-Tem Riley made a motion to nominate John McDonald.
Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Caddell
made a motion to nominate Archie Kelly. Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried. Commissioner Barber made a motion to nominate Connie Burns.
Commissioner Dowdy seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy made
a motion to nominate Percy DeGraffenreid. Commissioner Barber seconded. All
ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner McGraw made a motion to nominate Kim Duncan
Livengood. Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor
Stewart nominated Roland Gilliam. Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley made a motion to nominate Pat Brown.
Commissioner Dowdy seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Caddell
made a motion to nominate Catherine Graham. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded. All
ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Barber made a motion to nominate Dale Buie.
Commissioner Dowdy seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy made
a motion to nominate Bob Hunt. Commissioner Caddell seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried. Commissioner McGraw made a motion to nominate Mrs. Dorothy Phillips
who lives on Dowd Street. Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried. Mayor Stewart nominated George Wilson. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy and Barber will serve on the
committee as representatives of the Carthage Board of Commissioners.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the minutes of the September 14, 2010 Carthage Historical
Committee Meeting are attached, which are and do become part of these minutes.
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in September
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Caddell thanked the Police Department and the Fire Department
for all their support recently. Commissioner Barber inquired about the status
of the Robert Page house on Ray Street. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied that
we are waiting on an asbestos report. Commissioner Barber remarked that the
town needs to check on Fitness Grants for new sidewalks. Commissioner Barber
brought attention to a grant that the Fire Department has recently applied for,
stating that it should have come before the board before they applied for it.
Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that her Manager’s Report is sent out weekly
to the board. Commissioner Barber made a motion that the board review potential
grant applications before they are applied for. Commissioner McGraw seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner McGraw asked about the crosswalk around
the old Courthouse. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the way the DOT was
going to do it will not work and they are working on another option.
Commissioner Caddell asked if Town Manager Carol Sparks has heard from Blaine
East since the Special Meeting last month. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied
that she has not heard from Mr. East, however, she has a meeting with Fred
Hobbs of Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates tomorrow. Commissioner Dowdy inquired
about the St. Joseph’s project on Rockingham Street Extension. Town Manager
Carol sparks remarked that they are working on it but that it’s a slow process.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   None.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
   The board moved into closed session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6)
to consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition of
appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer at 8:50 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to go back
into open session. Commissioner McGraw seconded. The board moved back into open
session at 10:09 p.m. Mayor Stewart remarked there was no action to be taken.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 10:10 p.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
____________________________            ______________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk         Tom Stewart, Mayor
OCTOBER 18, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 18, 2010
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled meeting on
Monday October 18, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Lee McGraw, and Lisa Caddell. A quorum. Commissioner Milton T.
Dowdy, Jr. was absent.
   Others present were Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips,
Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant Karen
O’Hara, Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Director of
Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Also in attendance was John Chappell, reporter for the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner McGraw asked for a moment of silence for Town Manager Carol
Sparks and her family. Commissioner McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   None.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 21, 2010
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session September 21, 2010
   C.   Proclamation for Red Ribbon Week October 22-29, 2010
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy of Departmental Staff reports are attached and do become part of these
minutes.    
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The Board adopted an Ordinance Enacting a Code of Ordinances for the
Town of Carthage, NC Revising, Amending, Restating, Codifying and Compiling
Certain Existing General Ordinances of the Town of Carthage, following a motion
made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes.
Motion carried. A correction is to be made by American Legal to Chapter 30.01
Government and Officials Officers and Employees Generally, concerning the board
appointing officers and other employees; this will be changed to reflect the
role of the Town Manager in hiring & firing of all employees.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Minutes of the October 7, 2010 Planning Board Meeting are attached, which
are and do become part of these minutes. The Carthage Historical Committee met
on October 12, 2010 however, the minutes have not been received.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Stewart recognized Deputy Town Clerk Karen O’Hara for her graduation
from the International Institute of Municipal Clerk’s Association Clerk’s
School held at the UNC School of Government. Commissioner Barber asked Chief
McKenzie about the two cases of arson listed on his monthly report. Chief
McKenzie stated he would have to check on the specifics before he spoke
concerning the matter. Commissioner Barber praised Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis and the Public Works department on the appearance of the right-of-
way after the removal of the bushes and installation of the “no parking” signs
on Saunders Street at the intersection of Saunders Street and Rockingham
Street. Commissioner McGraw introduced his father-in-law. Commissioner Caddell
asked about Little River. Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips
reported on a recent meeting with Fred Hobbs and Simon Burgess concerning the
proposed sewer plant project for the property owned by Land Core Group. The
board requested that information concerning the new website be placed on the
water bills. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley complimented the appearance of the grounds
surrounding the McDonald Building as well as, the intersection of Saunders
Street and Rockingham Street. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley made a motion to appoint John
McDonald to the Carthage Historical Committee for a three year term, term due
to expire June 30, 2013. Commissioner McGraw seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried. Mayor Stewart asked the board if they had been in contact with the
various people that had recently been nominated to serve on the NCDOT
Transportation Committee. Several of the board members indicated that they had
been unable to speak to some of their nominees. Mayor Stewart indicated the
town needed to contact them in order to inform them of their nominations.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell stated that he was very proud of how the town had recently
rallied around Town Manager Carol Sparks and her family during their recent
tragedy.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 7:12 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________            ______________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
NOVEMBER 15, 2010
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 15, 2010
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
November 15, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lisa
Caddell, Artie Barber, Lee McGraw, and Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Also in attendance were Tammy Gaydon, CPA from Sharrard, McGee & Co., and
John Chappell, reporter for the Pilot Newspaper.
   Concerned citizen present was Debra Stringer.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   Tammy Gaydon, CPA of Sharrard, McGee & Co. gave the presentation of the FY
2009-2010 audit. Ms. Gaydon reviewed the highlights of the FY 2009-2010 audit.
Mayor Stewart thanked Ms. Gaydon for her presentation on the audit.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following item following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 18, 2010
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that the 1996 JCB Backhoe is in the shop and the needed
repairs are going to cost approximately $23,000.00. Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis spoke concerning the need to purchase another backhoe. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that the Public Works trucks have been paid off as of
September 2010. The payments were approximately $29,000.00 per year for four
years. The new payment for the backhoe purchase would be less than the
$29,000.00 per year that was currently budgeted for the Public Works vehicles.
The new payment would not begin until the FY 2011-2012 budget and would be for
a period of four years. After much discussion the board voted to allow Director
of Public Works Rocky Davis to move forward with the necessary financing for
the purchase of a backhoe, and to investigate securing a service contract with
the dealer, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy opened
discussion concerning the monthly report for Public Works, going over various
equipment needs with Director of Public Works Rocky Davis. Commissioner Dowdy
communicated that he would prefer Director of Public Works not use the wording
“deadlined” for equipment that is somewhat operational.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A. After a brief discussion, the board voted to cancel the December 20, 2010
regular meeting following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board voted to change the
January 17, 2011 Regular Meeting date to Tuesday January 18, 2011, due to the
Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy
and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   The board voted to set the date for a Special Joint Meeting with the
Planning Board in order to hold a workshop on Low Impact Development for
Tuesday January 18, 2011 at 6:00 p.m., following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board set the Public Hearing date for the request for rezoning from
R-10(Residential 10,000 Sq. Ft. Lots) to B-2 for the Sam Kelly heir property on
the corner of Simpson Street & Monroe Street for Tuesday January 18, 2010 at 7:
00 p.m., following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in October. Minutes of the Carthage
Historical Committee Meeting October 12, 2010 are attached, which are and do
become part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Stewart brought attention to three recommended appointments to the
Carthage Historical Committee, J.D. Monroe and Ann & Donald McCaskill. The
board voted to appoint J.D. Monroe, Ann & Donald McCaskill to the Carthage
Historical Committee, with terms to expire June 30, 2015, following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber. Commissioner Barber remarked that J.D. Monroe
needs to sign his application. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried. Commissioner Barber inquired about the repairs at the Carthage Museum.
Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that she is waiting for estimates on the
proposed repair work. Commissioner Barber remarked that he attended the
Diabetes Walk at the Nancy Kiser Park this past weekend, stating that a
sidewalk is needed past the park and the school on Rockingham Street and that
he was going to continue to speak about the sidewalks. Commissioner Barber
stated that we need to send a form letter to the various colleges requesting an
intern to assist in writing grants for the town. Commissioner Barber asked
about the Page House. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the dumpster has
been removed. Commissioner Dowdy spoke concerning some items that were of
interest to the board members at the recent North Carolina League of
Municipalities annual conference. Commissioner Dowdy spoke concerning the NC
Debt Set-Off Program, and possible grant programs. Commissioner McGraw brought
attention to the sign regulations in the Development Ordinance. Town Manager
Carol Sparks remarked that the Planning Board will discuss possible changes to
the sign regulations at their regular meeting in December. The board voted to
have Town Manager Carol Sparks contact Ron Jackson again concerning the
appearance of the property behind the Sinclair Building. If he does not clean
it up, the town will do it and assess him the cost of doing so, following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber. Seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried. Commissioner Caddell thanked all the town departments for all
that they do. Commissioner Riley stated she wished to thank all the town
departments for all the hard work, as well.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell stated he wished to thank the town employees that assisted
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis in transporting and delivering the chairs
to the theater in Robbins.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   None.
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:16 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_________________________         ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
2011 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 18, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS/PLANNING BOARD
SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
JANUARY 18, 2011
6:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board held a Special
Joint Meeting on Tuesday January 18, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building
in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell, Artie Barber, and Lee McGraw. A full board.
   Planning Board Members present were Chairman Chris Lassiter, Connie Burns,
Bob Hunt, Max Muse, and Catherine Graham. A quorum.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis,
concerned citizen Debra Stringer, and Patrick Beggs from North Carolina State
University.
   The purpose of the Special Joint Meeting was to hold a workshop on Low
Impact Development (LID).
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT PRESENTATION:
   Patrick Beggs from NCSU began by presenting a power point presentation
introducing the basic principals of low impact development. Mr. Beggs explained
that LID is a relativity new, comprehensive stormwater management approach. The
power point presentation outlined the purpose of LID, which is to maintain and
restore a developing watershed’s hydrologic regime by creating a landscape that
mimics the natural hydrologic functions of infiltration, runoff, and
evapotranspiration. This is accomplished through an array of LID site planning
practices and stormwater treatment techniques that manage runoff volume and
water quality. During Mr. Begg’s power point presentation, he explained that
although LID is a relatively new and radical change, many federal and state
agencies have already begun to support the effort of promoting this change.
Mayor Stewart thanked Mr. Beggs for his informative presentation.
V.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 6:45 p.m.
_____________________________         _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
JANUARY 18, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 18, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Tuesday
January 18, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Artie Barber, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell, and Lee McGraw. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Police Chief
Chris McKenzie, and Director of Public Works Rocky Davis.
   Concerned citizens present were Steve Ennis of United Country Sandhills
Realty LLC, Georgia Davis, Alice Kincy, Debra Stringer, and Bill Lester from
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Mayor Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   Mayor Stewart remarked that David McKew had planned on coming to the
meeting, but was unable to attend. Mayor Stewart announced that the Town of
Carthage recently won 2 nd place in the NCRWA taste test, and presented Town
Manager Carol Sparks with a plaque which was recently awarded to the town.  
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the request for rezoning
from R-10(Residential 10,000 Sq. Ft. Lots) to B-2 for the Sam Kelly Heir
property on corner of Simpson Street & Monroe Street LRK #20010158 & #3503 at
7:03 p.m. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that all adjoining property owners
had been notified, public notice had been advertised in the paper and the
property had been posted with the rezoning sign. Town Manager Carol Sparks
informed the board that there had been no opposition to the proposed rezoning
request. Mayor Stewart closed the public hearing at 7:04 p.m.
   B.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing concerning the Community Block
Grant Application at 7:04 p.m. Mayor Stewart asked if there was anyone who
wished to speak. There was not. Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:05
p.m. 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 15, 2010
   B.   Budget Transfer #A
   C.   Budget Amendments # 1, #2, #3
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks remarked that the Public Works, Police and Fire Departments all
did a wonderful job during the recent snow/ice storm. Commissioner Barber
reiterated that all departments did a great job. Commissioner Barber brought
attention to the buried fuel tanks that belong to Paul Cummings located at 207
S. McNeill Street. Commissioner Barber asked Town Manager Carol Sparks to
review the Fire Inspection Contract with Moore County and determine who is
responsible for the inspections. Commissioner Barber requested that Town
Manager Carol Sparks write a letter to Moore County stating that the town is
ultimately responsible should something happen with the buried tanks and that
the town would like the County to take action against Paul Cummings to insure
that they are removed.   
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board voted to approve the request for rezoning from R-10
(Residential 10,000 Sq. Ft. Lots) to B-2 for the Sam Kelly Heir property on
corner of Simpson Street & Monroe Street LRK #20010158 & #3503, following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a discussion concerning the Resolution Declaring Surplus
Equipment and Authorizing Sale, the board voted to adopt the Resolution, with a
small advertisement to appear in the local paper twice within a two week period
before being placed on GovDeals.com, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Following a brief discussion concerning the Resolution In Support of
North Carolina’s Current Public ABC Control System, since there was only
information concerning the cons of privatizing it was decided to table this
issue until more information could be obtained concerning the pros of
privatizing, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber, and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Riley. Three ayes. Two nays. Motion carried. Commissioner McGraw
and Caddell voted nay.
   D.   The board voted to set the date for the FY 2011/2012 Budget Retreat for
February 15, 2011 to begin at 8:30 in the Fire Department, following a motion
made by Commissioner Dowdy. Commissioner Caddell seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   E.   Commissioner Dowdy made a motion for Town Manager Carol Sparks to
proceed with the application for the USDA grants/loans for wastewater system
upgrades following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   Discussion concerning the Appearance Committee was deferred to the
Budget Retreat, with Commissioners to have names for possible nominations,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. Commissioner Caddell seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
   None.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   Minutes of the December 2, 2010 Planning Board Meeting are attached, which
are and do become part of these minutes. The Historical Committee did not meet
in December 2010 or January 2011.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Barber inquired about the street light system and how does
Progress Energy decide how many street lights to place on a street. Town
Manager Carol Sparks remarked that it is one per so many feet. Town Manager
Carol Sparks stated she will contact Progress Energy to inquire about their
procedure for installing street lights. Commissioner Barber brought attention
to the NCLM Debt Set-Off Program. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that will be
discussed during the FY 2011-2012 Budget Retreat. In regards to Fire Chief
Brain Tyner’s request to apply for a grant, Commissioner Barber asked Fire
Chief Brian Tyner to put together a list of the equipment and turn out gear
that the Fire Department needs. Commissioner Barber asked Police Chief Chris
McKenzie about the drug enforcement canine, stating that he would like to see
the dog out more in the public eye. Chief McKenzie stated that Officer Ryan
Flowers is currently in Afghanistan and will return in a week or so. Chief
McKenzie remarked that he is a part-time Auxiliary Police Officer, so his time
in the field is somewhat limited. Commissioner Barber inquired about cross
training the canine. Chief McKenzie remarked that is generally very costly, and
it is usually discouraged by the trainers. Commissioner Dowdy asked about the
repairs that need to be done to the museum. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated
she has received two quotes and that this will be discussed at the upcoming
Budget Retreat. Commissioner Dowdy thanked all the departments for their hard
work during the recent snow and ice. Commissioner McGraw brought attention the
sign ordinance. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked this will be discussed at
the budget retreat. Mayor Stewart spoke concerning the proposed Pine Forest
Development that Moore County is considering approving. Mayor Stewart reported
that the developers promised that they would not take water from Nick’s Creek,
however there is no contract that says they can’t. Commissioner Barber asked
for an update on the proposed Shadow Lake project. Mayor Stewart stated that at
this time everyone involved feels it is a wonderful idea, however none of the
municipalities have money to put towards such a project. Commissioner Dowdy and
Commissioner McGraw both asked about an item concerning the FY 2009-2010 Audit.
Mayor Stewart reported that the language used is standard for most all
municipalities with limited staff. Commissioner Caddell spoke briefly about the
fuel tanks at Paul Cummings building. There was a brief discussion concerning
possible locations of other buried tanks. Commissioner Caddell thanked all the
departments for the Christmas Luncheon held this past December. Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley did the same by thanking everyone for the wonderful Christmas luncheon.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Debra Stringer, who resides in Savannah’s Garden Subdivision inquired about
the pump station. Ms. Stringer also asked about the buried fuel tanks.
Commissioner Barber remarked that he did not state that they were leaking, only
that the town would like to expedite their removal before there is anything to
be concerned about. Mr. Steve Ennis spoke about how helpful Town Manager Carol
Sparks was with the recent application for rezoning the Kelly Heir property.
Furthermore, Mr. Ennis thanked the town office employees, the Police, and Fire
Department for all their assistance during the July 4 th Parade last year.
Commissioner Barber thanked Mr. Ennis for the nice appearance of his office
property located on Monroe Street.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   The board moved into closed session at 8:30 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (4) to discuss matters relating to the location or expansion of
industries or other businesses in the area served by the public body, following
a motion made by Commissioner Caddell and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:59 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried. There was no action to be taken. 
XIV.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
________________________________      _______________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
FEBRUARY 15, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
FEBRUARY 15, 2011
8:30 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Tuesday February 15, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. in the Fire Department
located at the W.C Walton Municipal Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lisa
Caddell, Milton “T” Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw, and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Police Chief Chris
McKenzie, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Special guests attending were Bill Huber, Bob Ganness, and Fred Hobbs of
Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates.
   The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2011 –
2012 budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 8:40 a.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   SPECIAL APPEARANCE:
Mr. Bill Huber addressed the board and spoke concerning the proposed Pine
Forest Development project. Mr. Huber spoke in opposition to the proposed
development project, citing documentation that he says that the proposed
project will endanger the town’s drinking water resource of Nick’s Creek. Mr.
Huber stated that Moore County is holding a meeting tonight concerning the
proposed project, and asked that the board attend the meeting and go on the
record in opposition to the project. Mr. Ganness spoke concerning the project’s
plan to build a proposed wastewater treatment plant, reporting that the
proposed location is right on top of Nick’s Creek, and therefore, he feels it
poses an unreasonable risk. Mayor Stewart thanked Mr. Huber and Mr. Ganness for
speaking to the board. Mr. Fred Hobbs then spoke to the board, remarking that
in his opinion everything that Mr. Huber and Mr. Ganness stated is not
accurate, that nothing in the proposed plan was going to endanger the town’s
water. Commissioner Barber inquired about the proposed buffer. Mr. Hobbs stated
that there is a proposed 25’ natural buffer to the wetland line and then the
creek. Commissioner McGraw inquired about a guarantee that the project won’t
take water from Nick’s Creek. Mr. Hobbs stated that the Moore County Board of
Commissioners can place conditions on the approval of the project. There was
much discussion. Mayor Stewart urged the board to come to a consensus on how to
proceed with this issue. Commissioner McGraw stated he felt that the Mayor
should speak tonight at the Moore County Meeting. Town Manager Carol Sparks
will consult with Town Attorney Doug Gill on preparing a statement for
tonight’s meeting.  
IV.   FINANCE DEPARTMENT FY 2011-2012 BUDGET PROCESS:
The board reviewed the following items; budget/fund balance process and
summary, the outstanding debt as of June 2011, the current fee and rate
schedule. In reviewing the budget/fund balance summary, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips explained that the budget is a plan for the year
but sometimes changes have to be made during the year. Ms. Phillips spoke
concerning the need to pave Ray Street and Saunders Street, as well as some
other projects that should be funded even if the board has to allocate some
money from fund balance. Town Manager Carol Sparks brought attention to the
sewer upgrades that are needed as well as the requirement for the USDA Loan
application that the town charge enough on the sewer rates to be able to make
the payment on the loan. Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke concerning the current
grant application process. After some discussion concerning this issue the
board voted to allow the Department Heads and/ or Town Manager to proceed with
any pre-application procedures, for any grant following a motion made by
Commissioner Caddell and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. It was noted that the
Commissioners would like to be made aware of any pre-application for a grant by
email or manager’s report as soon as possible. In addition Commissioner McGraw
stressed that even though an application has been submitted, the board has the
discretion not to approve the grant. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Phillips
asked if any of the board would be planning on attending the NCLM Annual
Conference in October 2011. The consensus was that it is a beneficial
conference for the board to attend.
V.   FIRE DEPARTMENT:
Fire Chief Tyner presented the board with the Fire Department proposed budget
for FY 2011-2012. Chief Tyner explained that the cost of immunizations has gone
up due to the economy and the addition of more volunteers. Chief Tyner remarked
he would like to see a $1.00 increase in the pay-per-call for volunteers. There
was some discussion concerning this issue, with Commissioner Barber asking for
clarification on how the pay-per-call is paid for employees already on the
clock. Chief Tyner replied that during the normal work day, paid employees,
including himself are not entitled to pay-per-call. Chief Tyner stated that
they are only paid for calls that are answered after normal working hours. The
board reviewed Chief Tyner’s Capital Outlay Plan for the next five years.
Commissioner McGraw asked if there was money allocated for community events.
Chief Tyner stated there is money in the budget for various community events
that the Fire Department sponsors. Commissioner Dowdy inquired about seeing the
fire trucks out & about town. Chief Tyner remarked that they drive the fire
truck to lunch so that if they have a fire call, they don’t have to come back
to the station in order to save time. There was some discussion concerning the
Fire District Tax as well as, a possible merger with the Rescue Squad.
VI.   POLICE DEPARTMENT: 
Police Chief Chris McKenzie spoke concerning the Viper Radio System. There was
much discussion concerning this issue. Chief McKenzie spoke concerning the
Capital Improvement Plan, as well as, the future need for the Police Department
to expand. There was a brief discussion concerning how the tow truck/wrecker
rotation list is working. Chief McKenzie spoke concerning the Police Department
policing the Moore County Fair. Chief McKenzie reported that an agreement has
been reached with the Moore County Fair paying a flat fee for Police coverage
at the annual fair. Chief McKenzie brought attention to the Police Dog,
informing the board that Sgt. Justin Garner has been hired by NC Highway Patrol
and that Police Officer Ryan Flowers will be filling the opening within the
Police Department. The board adjourned for lunch at 11:50 p.m.
VII.   PUBLIC WORKS:
The board reconvened the Special Meeting at 1:00 p.m. with Director of Public
Works Director Rocky Davis presenting his proposed budgetary requests for the
FY 2011-2012. The board reviewed various items, with some discussion concerning
replacing the doors to the front entrance to the Municipal Building, proposed
repairs to the Museum building, and upgrades that are badly needed for the pump
stations. The board reviewed various unfunded requests, with the board making a
decision to continue with the garbage contract with Republic Services,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy made a motion to fund the
request to have the clear well inspected and internally cleaned, at an
estimated cost of $10,000.00. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis handed out a preliminary cost
estimate for water system improvements.
VIII.   ADMINISTRATION:
Town Manager Carol Sparks discussed the personnel needs for the Administration
Department, as well as Code Enforcement and the Buggy Festival. There was
discussion concerning the NCLM Debt Set Off Program, with the board voting to
join the program, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded
by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The board reviewed the Capital
Improvement Program. Town Manager Carol Sparks went over various Economic
Development/Planning/Zoning items.
IX.   ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 3:27 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
________________________         ________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
FEBRUARY 21, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 21, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
February 21, 2011 at 7:00 p.m at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lee
McGraw, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, and Lisa Caddell. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Melissa Adams, Deputy Town Clerk/
Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie, Police Captain Bart Davis, Police Sgt. John
Gibbons, Police Sgt. Justin Garner, Police Lt. Rick Bickel, Police Officer Ryan
Flowers, Police Officer Luke Lang, Police Officer Tim Dalton, and Fire Chief
Brian Tyner.
   Also in attendance were Monita McLauren, Chief Planner and Jeffrey Burdick,
Senior Planner with NC Department of Commerce, Division of Community
Assistance, Roland Gilliam, Billy Ransom with Moore County Parks & Recreation,
Kathy Watkins, Executive Board Member for the Dixie Youth World Series, and
concerned citizen Debra Stringer.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A. Kathy Watkins, Executive Board Member Committee Member for the Dixie
Youth World Series addressed the board giving a brief overview of the upcoming
event to be held August 12-18 of this year. Billy Ranson of Moore County Parks
& Recreation Department gave a more detailed presentation. Mr. Ransom spoke
concerning the opening ceremonies, coordination with the Carthage Police
Department and NC Highway Patrol, as well as the need for volunteers for the
event. Commissioner Barber asked Mr. Ransom to explain about host families for
the event. Mr. Ranson stated that the host families are the contact for
information about Moore County for the families attending the Dixie World
Series, such as places to eat, physicians offices, and any other information
that the visiting family may need. Mr. Ransom remarked that host families will
be recognized at the opening ceremony. Mayor Stewart thanked Mr. Ransom for his
presentation.
   B. Roland Gilliam gave the board an update on moving the McConnell Monument,
remarking that the property has been surveyed, the deed has been recorded and
the translation has been completed. Mr. Gilliam stated he hopes to be moving
the monument one day this week. Mr. Gilliam stated as soon as he knows how much
money it is going to cost to move the monument, he will give the town a check
to cover any possible future expense of moving the monument back to its
original location. Mr. Gilliam informed the board that his ceremony for the
monument is scheduled on the 94 th Anniversary of McConnell’s death, March 19,
2011.
   Mr. Gillaim invited the entire board to attend the ceremony.
   C. Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Police Captain Bart Davis presented Luke
Yang with the designation of Carthage Police Officer of the Year. The board
congratulated Officer Lang.
   D. Police Chief Chris McKenzie spoke concerning Police Sgt. Justin Garner
informing the board that he is leaving to take a position with the NC Highway
Patrol. Chief McKenzie praised Sgt. Garner for his work ethics and performance
as a dedicated Police Officer. The board praised Sgt. Garner and wished him
well in his new job.
   E. Jeff Burdick, Senior Planner for the NC of Department of Commerce,
Division of Community Assistance addressed the board concerning updating the
Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ). Mr. Burdick explained that due to
annexations done in 1998 and 1999 in order to make most of the satellite
annexations contiguous, it did away with a lot of the one mile ETJ. Mr. Burdick
presented the board with a map showing the proposed one mile ETJ and a map
showing a proposed two mile ETJ. Mr. Burdick explained the process, informing
the board that property owners in the affected area will have to be notified
and a Public Hearing notice advertised in the paper. The town will also have to
have a Public Hearing to zone the new one mile ETJ. Mr. Burdick informed the
board that once the one mile ETJ expansion is complete, he will update the
town’s Land Use Plan. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that the service is
free, the town will pay for his mileage, and any out of town meals, if he is
here in Carthage during meal time. It was noted that in order to proceed, the
town has to accept the Memorandum of Agreement. The board approved the
Memorandum of Agreement with the NC Department of Commerce, Division of
Community Assistance, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy, and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber with the following correction to the Regular Meeting January 18, 2011
minutes; clarification from Commissioner Barber that what was stated to Ms.
Debra Stringer after she inquired about where the leaking fuel tank was,
Commissioner Barber stated he did not state that the fuel tank was leaking,
seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   A. Minutes Board of Commissioners Planning Board Special/Joint Meeting
January 18, 2011
   B. Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 18, 2011
   C. Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session January 18, 2011
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached, which is and does become part of these minutes.    
VIII.   NEW    BUSINESS
   A. The board voted to set the Public Hearing date to consider adopting the
Moore County Hazard Mitigation Plan Update for Monday March 21, 2011 at 7:00
p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B. The board voted to set the Public Hearing date to consider the Amendment
to the Development Ordinance Section 100.59 Sign Regulations for Monday March
21, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A. Police Chief Chris McKenzie remarked that he had given the board a report
on the status of the Police Department policing the Moore County Fair at the
recent Budget Retreat. Chief McKenzie reported that he has worked out an
agreement in which the Moore County Fair will pay a flat fee to Carthage Police
Department in return for policing the annual fair. The board voted to accept
the agreement between the Moore County Fair and the Carthage Police Department
following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner
Caddell.
   B. Discussion concerning the Appearance Committee was deferred to the March
21, 2011 Regular Meeting following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in February. Carthage Historical Committee
Meeting Minutes for February 8, 2011 are attached, which are and do become part
of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
There was a brief discussion concerning sidewalk repairs. Commissioner McGraw
spoke concerning the excellent job the Police Department does through out the
year. Commissioner Caddell reiterated Commissioner McGraw’s comments, remarking
that the town is lucky to have the caliber of Police Officers that we have,
thanks to Chief McKenzie with his leadership and training. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley
commented that she would like to reiterate the comments made by Commissioner
Caddell and McGraw.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell remarked it was President’s Day today.
XIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:10 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
__________________________         ___________________________
Melissa P. Adams,
MMC
Town Clerk      Tom Stewart, Mayor
MARCH 21, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 21, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday
March 21, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lee
McGraw, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., and Artie Barber. A quorum. Commissioner Lisa
Caddell was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Melissa Adams,
Deputy Town Clerk/Administrative Assistant Karen O’Hara, Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis, Police Captain Bart Davis, Master Patrol Officer Ryan
Flowers, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Concerned citizens present were Debra Stringer, Steve Ennis from United
County Sandhills Realty, LLC, David Craft, David McKew from Hydro Management,
and John Chappell from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A. Police Captain Bart Davis introduced Master Patrol Officer Ryan Flowers,
remarking that he had served as an Auxiliary Police Officer before being hired
full time. The board welcomed Master Patrol Officer Flowers.
   B. David McKew of Hydro Management gave an update on the Water Plant,
remarking that at this time of year they are generally working on maintenance
and getting ready for summer. Mr. McKew went over the various reports, copies
attached, which are and do become part of these minutes. Commissioner McGraw
asked if the board could receive the reports on the water plant when they
receive their packets and not the night of the meeting so that they may have
time to review them. Mr. McKew remarked that would not be a problem.
Commissioner Barber asked about the difference in overtime hours from January
to February. Mr. McKew stated that they might have had more maintenance to do
in one month than the other. Commissioner Dowdy brought attention to the odor
problems with the water recently, stating that it is something that we know is
going to happen every year and we should be on top of the situation. Mr. McKew
remarked that he had trouble getting barley hay this year for the reservoir;
combined with the period of early unseasonably warm weather it caused a
problem. Furthermore, Mr. McKew explained that there is no indication as to how
long the barley actually works. Commissioner Dowdy stressed that we know we are
going to have this problem every year, and we need to take steps to ensure that
we are more proactive. Commissioner Dowdy commented that it appears we are
reacting to the situation as opposed to being prepared before it happens.
   Mr. McKew remarked he agreed. Commissioner Barber inquired as to
   whether or not the equipment they purchase is put out for bids. Mr. McKew
remarked that they receive quotes and then consult with Town Manager Carol
Sparks. Mayor Stewart thanked Mr. McKew for his update.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A. Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the Moore County Multi-
Jurisdictional 2010 Hazard Mitigation Plan Update at 7:01 p.m. Town
Manager Carol Sparks remarked that Carlton Cole Fire Chief Village of Pinehurst
was planning on being at the meeting in order to answer any questions they may
have, however, he was not present. There was no one who wished to speak. Mayor
Stewart closed the meeting at 7:02 p.m.
   B. Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the question of the proposed
Text Amendment to the Carthage Development Ordinance at 7:02 p.m. The purpose
of the Public Hearing was to consider an    amendment to Section 100.59 Sign
Regulations; Section 15. Signs Permitted without a permit; I. Temporary Signs,
decreasing the size of sale/lease/rent signs in the Central Business District
from 32 sq. ft. to 5 sq. ft. Steve Ennis of United Country Sandhills Realty,
LLC spoke concerning the proposed amendment, remarking because the standard
size for professionally made signs is 16 sq. ft., he felt that the proposed
size of 5 sq. ft. is too small. Steve Ennis asked the board to reconsider the
proposed size. Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:05 p.m.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: The board approved the following items following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried. 
   A. Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 15, 2011
   B. Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 21, 2011
   C. Budget Amendment #4, #5
VI.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks remarked that Town Clerk Melissa Adams will be leaving for her new
position with the Town of Hope Mills and that she will be missed. Town Manager
Carol Sparks praised Melissa for her work with the Town. Town Clerk Melissa
Adams remarked that it had been a pleasure working for the town and that she
will miss everyone as well. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that Karen O’Hara
will be appointed as Town Clerk and Development Administrator. Commissioner
Barber brought attention to the Playful City Program. Commissioner Barber asked
about Sanford receiving a grant. Town Manager Carol Sparks replied that they
have not awarded any grants as of yet, however, they will be awarding grants
over the next three years. Some discussion followed. Commissioner Barber asked
about the situation with Paul Cummings gas tank. Town Manager Carol Sparks
stated that Ken Skipper had suffered a heart attack and was not able to meet
Mr. Cummings. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that Mr. Skipper is back at
work and she will follow up on the situation. Commissioner Barber asked about
the report from the county on the locations of all the old buried gas tanks.
Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the report has been complied and she
should be receiving it next week. Commissioner Barber asked if Town Manager
Carol Sparks could ask Moore County to send a quarterly report on the building
inspections. Commissioner Barber asked if Moore County was being billed for
water at the construction site for the new detention center. Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis replied that the county is being billed for water
usage. Commissioner Dowdy asked how the hiring process was coming along for the
Office Assistant. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated she has gone thorough all
the applications and when Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips
returns from vacation, they will begin the interviewing process.
VII.   NEW    BUSINESS
   A. The board adopted the Resolution for the Moore County Multi-
Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan Update, following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
   B. After a brief discussion the board voted to approve the Ordinance to
Amend the Carthage Development Ordinance Section 100.59 Sign Regulations;
Section 15. Signs Permitted without a permit; I. Temporary Signs; a. Temporary
On-Premise (Real Estate sale/lease/rent) in the Central Business District; one
per street frontage; Maximum Copy area – 5 sq. ft.; Maximum Display Time –
Until sale closed or rent/lease transaction finalized. b. Signs must be
professionally made in all zoning districts of the Town of Carthage, following
a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   C. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that she had enclosed
information concerning the NCLM Debt Set-Off Program in the board’s packets.
There was a brief discussion concerning the manner in which social security
numbers will have to be handled. Town Manger Carol Sparks explained that they
will have to be separated and kept in a secure location. In addition, Town
Manger Carol Sparks reported that we have to notify the water/sewer customers
why we are asking for their social security numbers and they can refuse to give
it to the town. The board voted to adopt the Resolution for Adoption of the NC
Local Government Debt Setoff Program, following a motion made by Commissioner
McGraw and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D. The board discussed scheduling a Work Session in order to Discuss Sewer
Pump Stations Upgrades - School of Government Class - Discuss Available Grants
and Downtown Development. After some discussion it was decided that Town
Manager Carol Sparks will get a couple of dates they would be available from
the staff at the School of Government, and report back to the board.
   E. The board voted to approve the Proclamation for National Library Week
–April 10-16, 2011 following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that she had spoken to Kia Hodges from
Playful City USA Program – KABOOM on Friday of last week. Town Manager Carol
Sparks explained that the first step is to be designated as a Playful City, and
then there are five core commitments that have to be in place; create a local
play commission task force; design an annual action plan for play; conduct a
playspace audit of all public accessible play areas; identify current spending
on capital projects & maintenance of playspace; and proclaim & celebrate an
annual KaBoom! Play Day. Town Manager Carol Sparks went on to explain that the
deadline for applications is June 1, 2011, with the first grants to be awarded
over the next three years. Grants range from $20,000 - $60,000 and the money
must be spent on playground equipment purchased from 11 preferred vendors.
There is a $10,000 match required. Commissioner Barber made a motion to table
this issue, in order to do more research. Seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A. After a discussion concerning nominations to the Appearance Committee the
board voted to change 31.051 Terms of Office; Vacancies Section B. (1) Three
Members one being a non-resident with a term to expire June 30, 2013, (2) Two
members, one being a non-resident with a term to expire June 30, 2012, (3) and
two members, one being an ex officio member with a term to expire June 30,
2011, following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board voted to appoint Mary Jane Grimm
with a term to expire June 30, 2011 and Town Manager Carol Sparks to appoint an
ex officio member (someone from the staff); Nancy McKenzie and John Barringer
with a term to expire June 30, 2012, and Annette McGraw, Charles Jackson, and
Penny Brown with a term to expire June 30, 2013, motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Copies of the Carthage Planning Board Meeting Minutes March 3, 2011 and the
Carthage Historical Committee Meeting Minutes March 8, 2011, are attached,
which are and do become part of these minutes. After a discussion concerning
the bids received for the repairs to the Carthage Museum, the board voted to
accept the bid in the amount of $18,000 from Danley Construction Company to
remove & replace deck, rear porch floor & steps, replace foundation walls under
rear porch & add access door, repair foundation wall under end of small room
facing school, reattach porch rafters to main house & flash on all porches;
with money to be transferred from the General Fund, following a motion made by
Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
X.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Barber spoke concerning the Dedication of the McConnell Marker at
the Gilliam McConnell Airport over the weekend, remarking that there was a very
good turn out and that he feels it was a good decision made by the town to
allow Roland Gilliam to move the marker. Commissioner McGraw added to that by
informing the board that he had placed four quarters with a note stating that
who ever found it could keep the quarters at the previous location and not one
person took it. Commissioner McGraw stated that Roland has a security camera in
place to protect the monument. Commissioner Dowdy remarked that Town Clerk
Melissa Adams will be missed, and thanked all the town staff for all the work
they do keeping the town safe and looking good. Commissioner McGraw told
Director of Public Works that the cemetery looks great. Commissioner Barber
asked that Town Manager Carol Sparks send a thank you letter to Speer Concrete
and Maness Concrete for donating the concrete for the McConnell Marker and Ken
Edder for the donation of marble.
XI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUPLIC:
John Chappell remarked that a group of people with one of the Southern Pines
Schools are working on starting a museum and would like to come and look at the
Carthage Museum.
XII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:22 p.m. following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
____________________________      _____________________________
Melissa P. Adams, MMC Town Clerk   Tom Stewart, Mayor
APRIL 18, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 18, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, April 18, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Lee
McGraw, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie and
Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Register of Deeds Judy Martin, Chief McKenzie’s daughter
and John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Caddell led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
There was none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
There was none.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, with a correction to the March 21, 2011
minutes identifying Carlton Cole as the Fire Chief Village of Pinehurst,
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
McGraw. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular meeting March 21, 2011
   B.   Budget Amendments #6, #7
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that she had spoken to Ken Skipper, Moore County Fire
Marshall, today and he advised her that Paul Cummings has contracted with a
company to remove the gas tanks and is in the process of applying for a permit.
The board voted to approve a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy that the gas tanks be removed within a sixty day period. All
ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Barber also remarked that the gas tanks
should be removed from Carthage Saw and Mower. Commissioner Barber requested
that Town Manager Carol Sparks obtain a copy of the contract the Town has with
Moore County to conduct our fire inspections and also get copies of the
violations that have been found. Town Manager Carol Sparks discussed the work
shop and the Board agreed to hold this special meeting on Monday, May 2, 2011
at 4:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Karen O’Hara was sworn in as the new Town Clerk by Judy Martin, Moore
County Register of Deeds. Copy attached which is and does become part of these
minutes.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
There was none.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not have a quorum at their April meeting. A copy of the
Carthage Historical Committee Meeting Minutes April 12, 2011 is attached, which
are and do become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy inquired as to when the contractor would start the repair
work at the museum. Town Manager Carol Sparks responded that the contractor had
been contacted and he indicated that it would be two or three weeks before he
could start. Commissioner Barber requested that Town Manager Carol Sparks
follow up on the street lights on Hwy 15/501 by Pete’s and he reported that
there is a street light out on Green Acres Road by the street sign.
Commissioner Barber inquired about the manhole at Carthage Saw and Mower.
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis replied that it had been buried again and
he would be fixing it. Commissioner Barber also asked Public Works Director
Rocky Davis if some of the non working fire hydrants around town could be
removed. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis responded that it would be
complicated and would involve turning off water for large parts of town.
Commissioner Barber commented that our Zoning Ordinance requires that
campgrounds have a certain number of restroom and shower facilities per camp
site and that this wording will need to be changed to reflect the fact that
this requirement does not pertain to Roland Gilliam’s RV Park since all of
Roland Gilliam’s units will be self contained. Commissioner Barber informed the
board that he had received one complaint about the leaf and limb route being
changed to every other week and he asked if anyone else had received any
complaints. No other board member had. Commissioner Dowdy inquired about fixing
the sidewalks by the courthouse and Town Manager Carol Sparks responded that
Public Works would start soon. Commissioner Dowdy also inquired as to how often
the recycling dumpster is emptied. Town Clerk Karen O’Hara responded that she
calls BFI/Allied Waste when it needs to be emptied which is approximately every
three weeks. Commissioner Dowdy thanked Public Works for the wonderful job they
do taking care of the cemetery. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley thanked Linda Phillips
and Karen O’Hara for the job they do. Commissioner McGraw agreed and remarked
that that is a reflection on Town Manager Carol Sparks and what a good job she
does. Commissioner McGraw informed the board that he would not be here for the
May meeting and he wanted the board to know that he has an organ that belongs
to the Carthage Historical Committee stored in the Marion building. Town
Manager Carol Sparks informed the board about the recent vandalism to the
bathrooms at Nancy Kiser Park. A discussion was held about whether or not the
bathrooms should be locked at all times unless a large group was using the
park. The board agreed that this was a situation that they needed to think
about.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
John Chappell thanked Commissioner McGraw for going up to Sanford after the
tornado and helping out. Town Manager Carol Sparks remarked that Carthage Fire
and Police personnel also traveled to Sanford to help. Town Manager Carol
Sparks called the Town Manager in Sanford and offered the Town’s assistance if
needed.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 7:33 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
MAY 2, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MAY 2, 2011
4:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on
Monday, May 2, 2011 at 4:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A quorum was present.
Commissioner Lee McGraw was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Special guests were Ray Ogden, Executive Director Moore County Partners in
Progress; Ken Skipper, Moore County Fire Marshal; Bryan Phillips, Moore County
Department of Public Safety Director and Bill Lester from Hobbs Upchurch
Associates.
   The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the CarFab Building grant, Town of
Carthage fire inspections and current pump station upgrades and loan
opportunities from the USDA.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   
   Ray Ogden addressed the board and spoke concerning the difficulty that
Connect Inc. has been having obtaining additional funding. Since this is the
case, Mr. Ogden has been working with the Rural Center in order to allow other
businesses involved with this property to apply for the Rural Center grant.
This grant requires that 24 jobs be created and two of the companies, GolfUS,
Inc. and RIA Solutions already have 19 of these jobs accounted for. An
additional manufacturing company, whose name has not yet been announced, is
expected to initially provide ten jobs, with 18 expected within two years. Mr.
Ogden pointed out that the Town has an agreement with the landlord so there is
no Town liability involved with this grant. After a brief discussion, the board
agreed to allow the grant to be amended to include the names of the new
companies following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   
   Moore County Fire Marshall Ken Skipper provided the board with an update on
the fire inspections that had been performed since the Fire Marshal’s office
took over the inspections in January 2011. According to Fire Marshall Skipper
the department has performed 715 inspections, 273 in Carthage which resulted in
617 violations, most of which have already been corrected. Fire Marshall
Skipper informed the board that his department’s job is to educate the
businesses, not just issue citations. Fire Marshall Skipper also gave an update
on the removal of the gas tanks on Paul Cumming’s property. Fire Marshall
Skipper reported that he had issued Mr. Cummings a citation today which
included a $3,000 fine and gave him 15 days to remove the tanks. Fire Marshall
Skipper requested that in the future the Town should have a copy of the permit
from the Fire Marshall’s office before issuing a new business a license.
Commissioner Dowdy requested that the Fire Marshall provide a list of the
different code violations to the town. Commissioner Barber asked about the
tanks at Carthage Saw and Mower and the ones at Hillcrest. Fire Marshall
Skipper reported that the tanks at Saw and Mower are still active, Clayton
Speer is looking at moving those, and he did not know that the tanks at
Hillcrest had been removed. Commissioner Barber applauded the Fire Marshall on
his efforts to impose the fire codes in Moore County.
VI.   
   Bill Lester addressed the board concerning the necessity of increasing the
capacity of the existing wastewater system. According to Mr. Lester the system
is at 90% capacity now and we are wearing out our pumps because they are
running too much. The plan would be to upgrade the pump station on Hwy 22, add
a new force main from Hwy 22 to the pump station at Cox’s Citgo, upgrade Cox’s
pump station to increase capacity and place a pump on McCasskill Road between
the Hwy 22 and Cox’s pump stations to create a transfer station. The estimated
cost of this project is $1,720,000 and is based on capacity gain over 20 years.
According to Mr. Lester the amount of money the Town would qualify for would
depend on how much USDA money was available at the time the application was
submitted. According to Mr. Lester, if the Town did not receive any grants and
did not use any Town money, this project would require an average increase of
approximately $12.00 a month per utility bill. Commissioner Dowdy inquired as
to the feasibility of adding the Little River pump station upgrade into this
project. Mr. Lester responded that it could easily be added for a nominal
additional cost. Commissioner Barber asked if Golden Leaf money could be used
for this project and Mr. Lester responded probably not, since it is increasing
capacity, not addressing infiltration of the system. Mayor Stewart asked if
expanding the lagoon should be considered and Mr. Lester indicated that that
was not a viable option. Mr. Lester informed the board that they needed to
decide whether or not to move forward with the application process. The board
directed Town Manager Carol Sparks to get together with Mr. Lester to work on a
budget.
VII.   
   After some discussion, the board agreed to hold a FY 2011-2012 budget
workshop on Tuesday, June 7, 2011 at 4:00 p.m. in the Fire Department.
VIII.   
   The board passed the Proclamation for Municipal Clerks Week May 1 through
May 7, 2011, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley and seconded
by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   
   A brief conversation was held concerning a dead tree located on the new
detention center site. The board agreed that Town Manager Carol Sparks should
write a letter to the County requesting that they remove this dead tree from
the property, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 5:20 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All eyes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
MAY 16, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 16, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, May 16, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A quorum was present.
Commissioner Lee McGraw was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Office Assistant Dina Tharp, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis,
Police Chief Chris McKenzie and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Dr. Susan Purser, Superintendent Moore County Schools; Tim
Lussier, Moore County Schools Advisor for Community Relations; Robin Lea,
Principal Union Pines High School; Denny Ferguson, Principal Carthage
Elementary School; Blaine East, LandCore Commercial Real Estate; Bill Lester,
Hobbs Upchurch Associates and Debra Stringer, concerned citizen.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks introduced the town’s new Office Assistant
Dina Tharp. The board welcomed Ms. Tharp.
   B.   Dr. Susan Purser introduced the Principals from Carthage Elementary
School and Union Pines High School and gave a presentation on the mission,
vision and core beliefs of Moore County schools. Dr. Purser distributed
handouts, copies attached which are and do become part of these minutes. She
asked all of the Commissioners to complete a copy of the survey. Mr. Ferguson
and Ms. Lea provided examples of how their schools are growing in the areas of
student leadership and providing experiences where students can assist in the
design of how they are learning. Dr. Purser explained that the same core skills
are being taught in schools, just in a different way. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley
commended Dr. Purser on giving a wonderful presentation and commented that it
made her want to visit the schools. Commissioner Barber commented on how nice
the landscaping looked at Carthage Elementary School. Commissioner Dowdy
inquired about the availability of laptops for children who did not have access
to one of their own. Ms. Lea reported that they are already allowing students
to check out laptops from the Union Pines Library and Dr. Purser said that they
are working on a program to begin offering this availability to eighth grade
students.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING:
There was none. 
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular meeting April 18, 2011
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special meeting May 2, 2011
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks informed the board that she had talked to Ken Skipper, Moore
County Fire Marshall, about the gas tanks on Paul Cummings property. She passed
out a copy of a contract between Paul Cummings and Environmental
Hydrogeological Consultants, Inc., copy attached which is and does become part
of these minutes and reported that Fire Marshall Ken Skipper advised her that a
permit should be issued within a week. The board agreed by unanimous consent to
mail the letter requested by St. Joseph of the Pines to accompany their grant
application for Phase II. Town Manager Carol Sparks recognized Public Works
Director Rocky Davis on being chosen a Citizen of the Year by the Carthage
Rotary Club. She extended an invitation to the board to attend the Citizens of
the Year Banquet. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that the Tobacco Road
Outlet store had opened next to Food Lion.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   After a brief discussion and a review of the updated map the board
unanimously agreed to send a letter to Chairman Nick Picerno requesting that
the Moore County Board of Commissioners authorize an extension of Carthage’s
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ).
   B.   Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that the NC Rural Center
Grant application needed to be submitted in June and that even if the town is
awarded this grant, we don’t have to take it if the project does not proceed as
planned. The monetary amounts are $1 million from the NC Rural Center, $750,000
from the CDBG and $250,000 from LandCore Commercial Real Estate. Mr. East
explained that the plan now was to move the project to the Little River side of
the street and leave Magnolia Hill for future development. All of the amenities
will remain the same; although, the total area will increase from 45,000 square
feet to 60,000 square feet. The project will still include the Police and Fire
sub stations as well as the new sewer pump station which will enable Oceanico
to build on an additional 250 lots and take care of the sewer problems in that
section of town. Mr. Lester indicated that the Town needed to be committed to
the project and we needed to file the grant application now. He stated that
before any money was drawn we would know that everything is in place. The board
agreed to adopt the Resolution requesting grant assistance from the NC Rural
Center Economic Infrastructure Grants Program and the CDBG Economic Development
Grant Program on a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board agreed to submit a loan application to the USDA to upgrade
Cox’s sewer pump station and the Hwy 22 sewer pump station on a motion made by
Commissioner Artie Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in May. A copy of the Carthage Historical
Committee Meeting Minutes April 12, 2011 is attached which are and do become a
part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Mayor Stewart commented that it sounds as if the Historical Committee is
moving forward and has some good ideas for fund raising. He also inquired as to
the winner of the iPad 2. Commissioner Barber asked Town Manager Carol Sparks
if she had checked into the possibility of putting up a street light on Hwy.
15/501. Town Manager Carol Sparks responded that she had talked to DOT and
Progress Energy. DOT indicated that they usually do not put street lights on
major highways because drivers run into them. Progress Energy responded that
they would have to get an encroachment from DOT, if that was approved then the
Town would have to pay for an engineer to design the pole, pay for the pole and
pay the monthly charge. Progress Energy indicated that they usually do not put
up additional poles unless there have been a lot of accidents at the site or it
is a dangerous intersection. Commissioner Dowdy commented on the good job
everyone did with the Buggy Festival and the good job that Carol and Rocky did
getting the grass cut on the back streets of town. Commissioner Caddell also
thanked the staff for all of their hard work on the Buggy Festival. Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley agreed with all of the comments that had already been made.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   Debra Stringer commented that she had enjoyed the presentation by Dr. Purser
and she asked if the board knew the status of the wet lands restoration in
Savannah’s Garden. Town Manager Carol Sparks said that she would check with the
Core of Engineers.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   The board moved into closed session at 8:10 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (5) to establish or instruct the staff or agent concerning the
negotiation of the price and terms of a contract concerning the acquisition of
real property, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular
session at 8:21 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded
by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried. There was no action to be
taken.
XII.   ADJORNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:21 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
JUNE 7, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
JUNE 7, 2011
4:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Tuesday, June 7, 2011 at 4:00 p.m. at the William C. Walton
Municipal Building (Town Hall).
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell, Lee McGraw and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie and
Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   The purpose of the meeting was to hold a FY 2011-2012 Budget Workshop.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 3:59 p.m. Town Manager Carol
Sparks distributed the following, copies attached which are and do become a
part of these minutes, to all Commissioners: list of bypass committee
stakeholders, invitation from the Sandhills Area Land Trust to attend the movie
Gasland, United Water reports/updates and budget meeting questions and answers
requested by Commissioner Barber.
II.   
   Town Manager Carol Sparks announced the date of the Moore County Partners in
Progress Annual Dinner and invited all members to attend. Town Manager Carol
Sparks, Mayor Stewart and Mayor Pro-Tem Riley indicated that they would attend.
III.   
   Mayor Stewart informed the board that he and Town Manager Carol Sparks had
met with Fred Hobbs, from Hobbs Upchurch Associates, and discussed the Town’s
previous request that the ’’’’Pine’ ’’Forest’’ subdivision’s water discharge be
a minimum of 75 feet from the top of the bank of Nick’s Creek. Mr. Hobbs
requested that the Town change that provision since they have not been able to
identify the tops of the bank. Mayor Stewart presented a map which represented
the creek with a blue line and the wetlands with a brown line. Mayor Stewart
announced that Mr. Hobbs suggested that the measurement criteria be changed to
75 feet from the center of the creek. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that
Dr. Jay Carter, an Environmentalist from Southern Pines, agreed that there were
no definable banks of Nick’s Creek and that in his opinion 75 feet from the
center of the creek was appropriate. After much discussion the board
unanimously agreed to change the Town’s requirement to 75 feet from the
designated wet land boundary. Mayor Stewart informed the board that he would
contact Mr. Hobbs and let him know the board’s decision.
IV.   
   Town Manager Carol Sparks spoke to the board concerning the water
meter situation at Martin’s ’’’’Mobile’ ’’Home’ ’’Park’’. She informed the
board that Public Works Director Rocky Davis has suggested that the town
install a master meter at this mobile home park since many of the meters are
broken and there is a concern over sewage from the parks septic system running
into town water meter boxes. The board had mixed views on this topic and after
much discussion agreed that Town Manager Carol Sparks should try to contact the
owner, Mr. Pete Martin, in order to meet with him.
V.   
   Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that we had just received a
request from the Rotary Club to sponsor a float for the July 4 th parade. The
board discussed the cost and unanimously agreed that the town did not have the
money at this time.
VI.   
   Commissioner Barber informed the board that he had attended a Dixie Youth
Baseball World Series meeting for host families. Commissioner Barber requested
that the town do something to welcome the players and their families to
Carthage. After some discussion the board agreed that Town Manager Carol Sparks
should check on getting four Welcome to Carthage signs to be placed at the four
entrances to town.
VII.   
   Town Manager Carol Sparks reviewed the proposed budget highlights, including
the Property Tax Valuation, Fire District Valuation, General Fund Revenues and
Expenditures, Powell Bill Revenues and Expenditures and Water and Sewer
Revenues and Expenditures. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that there will
be no tax increase or water/sewer increases, it is anticipated that the fire
district tax rate will increase to $.067, health insurance will increase 9%,
property/liability and workers’ comp insurance will increase approximately
1.00% and retirement will increase .53% for the general class and .63% for the
law enforcement class. The board reviewed the various line items of each
department. There was much discussion concerning various line items, including
contract services. The board feels strongly that the Town should obtain
competitive prices for these services.
VIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   The board moved into closed session at 5:10 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition
of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer, following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. There was no action to be taken.
IX.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 5:55 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All eyes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
JUNE 20, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 20, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, June 20, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell, Lee McGraw and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Chris McKenzie and
Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Alex Lamarre, VLC Partners; Bob Koontz, Hobbs Upchurch
Associates; Bill Lester, Hobbs Upchurch Associates and Leigh Pember, intern
reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and requested an
addition to the agenda under Public Appearance. On a motion made by
Commissioner Barber, seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, Bob Koontz from Hobbs
Upchurch Associates was added to the agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
II.   INVOCATION:
   Commissioner Caddell gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Mayor Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Susie Buchanan from St. Joseph of the Pines did not attend the meeting.
   B.   Bob Koontz addressed the board about the 75’ buffer from the wetland
boundary of Nick’s Creek in the proposed ’’’’Pine’ ’’Forest’’ development. Mr.
Koontz proposed that the buffer be 75’ from the USGS blue stream line or 25’
set back from the wetland boundary, whichever is greater. Mr. Koontz explained
that the USGS blue line is a definable map line that will be there forever. The
blue line runs down the middle of the stream and the buffer would be measured
75’ from the middle on each side. When questioned, Mr. Koontz responded that
the developer would be responsible if there was contamination and that the Town
could request monitoring of Nick’s Creek, same as they did with Forest Creek.
Mr. Koontz also indicated that it can be deed restricted that water cannot be
taken out of the creek for irrigation or any other purpose. After much
discussion, the board agreed to table the decision to change the Town’s
position from the position referenced in the town’s statement, copy attached
which is and does become a part of these minutes, based on a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board agreed to address this issue at their July 18, 2011 Board
meeting since a decision has been requested prior to the County’s Board of
Commissioners meeting on July 19, 2011.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the FY 2011-2012 Budget at
7:29 p.m. There were no comments or questions from the public. Mayor Stewart
closed the Public Hearing at 7:30 p.m.
   B.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the CDBG application at 7:30
p.m. Alex Lamarre presented a brief summary of the Little River project to the
board. Bill Lester explained that $750,000 would come from the CDBG toward the
wastewater system with an additional $250,000 match from VLR. Mayor Stewart
closed the Public Hearing at 7:48 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items, following a motion made by
Commissioner Caddell and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular meeting May 16, 2011
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session May 16, 2011
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Budget Workshop June 7, 2011
   D.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session June 7, 2011
   E.   Budget Transfer B & C
   F.   Budget Amendment #8, #9, #10, #11
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Dowdy questioned why a pump motor is sitting on top of the pump station at
Nick’s Creek. Public Works Director Rocky Davis responded that the pump is
being fixed. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that Public Works Director
Rocky Davis had received 250 bales of barley hay and had a standing order for a
minimum of 200 bales per year.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board adopted the FY 2011-2012 Budget and Budget Ordinance
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell, the board approved setting a Public Hearing date of July
18, 2011 to consider a Text Amendment to the Carthage Development Ordinance
Section 100.56. Special Requirements to the Table of Permitted Uses, Section
25. Recreational Vehicle Parks or Campsites, Section J. Utilities. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   C.   The board approved setting August 15, 2011 to hold a Public Hearing on
the Town of Carthage Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Expansion and Initial Zoning
of ETJ Expansion Area following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All Ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the board approved the Resolution Authorizing Application
for the CDBG Funding for the Wastewater Treatment Plant & Reuse Irrigation
System Project to Serve VLR Partners, LLC and Little River Hospitality Group,
the Resolution of Commitment to Further Fair Housing and the CDBG Economic
Development Grant Project Assessment Policy for the Town of Carthage Water &
Sewer Improvements Projects, copies attached which are and do become a part of
these minutes. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   After much discussion, the board agreed to table the issue requesting
removal of an out of service fire hydrant located at Quality Equipment on
Monroe Street following a motion by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Jean Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. The board did direct Town Manager
Carol Sparks to approach the owner and inquire to see if the Town could plant a
bush or install something around the hydrant to help protect it from being hit
by their large equipment.
   F.   Following a brief discussion, the board agreed to join the Triangle J
Council of Governments following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. Three ayes. Two nays, Commissioner Caddell and
Commissioner McGraw. Motion passed.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved appointing Hilda Cagle Morris and Bonnie Brown to
the Appearance Committee with terms that will expire on June 30, 2013 following
a motion by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A copy of the Planning Board minutes March 3, 2011 and April 7, 2011 are
attached which are and do become a part of these minutes. A copy of the
Carthage Historical Committee meeting minutes June 14, 2011 is attached which
are and do become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
   Commissioner Barber informed the board that he attended a meeting held for
the host families involved in the Dixie Youth Baseball World Series.
Commissioner Barber stated that the Welcome to Carthage banner looked good.
There were no other comments from the Commissioners.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   There were none. 
XII.   ADJORNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
JULY 18, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 18, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, July 18, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw and Artie Barber. A quorum was present.
Commissioner Lisa Caddell was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Bill Huber; Bob Koontz, Hobbs Upchurch Associates; Bill
Lester, Hobbs Upchurch Associates, Jay Carter, Environmental Engineer, Annette
McGraw, an Eagle Scout working on a project and John Chappell, reporter for The
Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
   Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
    Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
   Commissioner McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
   There were none.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the Text Amendment to the
Carthage Development Ordinance Section 100.56 Special Requirements to the Table
of Permitted Uses, Section 25. Recreational Vehicle Parks or Campsites, Section
J. Utilities at 7:02 p.m. There were no comments or questions from the public.
Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:02 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
   The board approved the following items, following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular meeting June 20, 2011
   B.   Write off of 2006 Delinquent Water Accounts
   C.   Budget Amendments #12, #13, #14
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Barber inquired as to why the 2006 delinquent water accounts were not being
processed through the NCLM Debt Set Off program. Town Manager Carol Sparks
replied that the debt had to be less than three years old in order to qualify
for this program.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board adopted the Text Amendment to the Carthage Development
Ordinance Section 100.56 Special Requirements to the Table of Permitted Uses,
Section 25. Recreational Vehicle Parks or Campsites, Section J Utilities
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   The board unanimously agreed to recuse Commissioner McGraw since he has
a conflict with the amendment to the Carthage Development Ordinance adding Live
Auctions/Retail Merchandise to the list of permitted uses in the Central
Business District, Thoroughfare Business District and Highway Commercial
District since the person requesting the amendment plans to rent property from
Commissioner McGraw that is in the Central Business District. The board agreed
to set August 15, 2011 as the date for the Public Hearing to amend the Carthage
Development Ordinance Section 100.55 Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved appointing Tim Emmert to the Carthage Appearance
Committee with a term to expire on June 30, 2014 following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   The board approved appointing Christy Cates to the Carthage Historical
Committee with a term to expire on June 30, 2015 following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   Bill Huber provided a handout to each of the commissioners, copy
attached which is and does become a part of these minutes. Mr. Huber informed
the board that his presentation was intended to dispute certain aspects of the
article that was in The Pilot after the Town’s June board meeting. Mr. Huber’s
main concern is that things can go wrong and if they do there will be sewage in
Nick’s Creek based on where they want to locate the wastewater plant. Mr. Huber
also stated that a contract cannot be written to prevent the owners from taking
water out of Nick’s Creek because it is the owner’s constitutional right to
have access to this water. Mayor Stewart thanked Mr. Huber and told him that he
appreciated what he was saying, but the Public Hearing phase on this issue was
over. Fred Hobbs passed out a map to all of the commissioners, copy attached
which is and does become a part of these minutes. Mr. Hobbs informed the board
that the state buffer requirements are twenty-five (25) feet from the wet land
boundary. Mr. Hobbs also stated that the Town could request additional surface
water and ground well monitoring. After much discussion, the board agreed to
amend their original statement, copy attached which is and does become a part
of these minutes, requiring the buffer to be twenty-five (25) feet from the wet
land boundary or seventy-five (75) feet from either side of the blue line
stream, whichever is greater, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   The Planning Board did not meet in July 2011. A copy of the Carthage
Historical Committee meeting minutes July 12, 2011 is attached which are and do
become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy asked if the work at the Museum had been completed. Town
Manager Carol Sparks responded that it had. Commissioner Dowdy also requested
that Rockingham Street Extension be spruced up before the Providence House
groundbreaking on July 29, 2011. Commissioner Barber informed the board that
John Frye, from Union Pines High School, had some books that he wanted to
donate to the Historical Committee. He requested that the committee contact Mr.
Frye directly. Commissioner Barber thanked Town Manager Carol Sparks and Public
Works Director Rocky Davis for doing a good job addressing the issues he
brought to their attention.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
   John Chappell reported that the Sheriff’s Department expects jury selection
for the Stewart trial to be complete by the end of the week. They anticipate
that the trial will begin here a day or two after jury selection is complete. 
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   The board moved into closed session at 8:12 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition
of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:59 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. There was no action to be taken.
XII.   ADJORNMENT:
   Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
AUGUST 5, 2011
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 5, 2011
9:00 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Friday, August 5, 2011 at 9:00 a.m. at the Community Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lisa Caddell and Lee McGraw. A quorum was present.
Commissioner Artie Barber was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Sergeant John Gibbons and Roland
Gilliam.
   The purpose of the meeting was to discuss a personnel matter.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Town Manager Carol Sparks announced that she had appointed Major Bart
Davis as the new Police Chief effective immediately. Town Manager Carol Sparks
remarked that she had not been planning to announce the appointment at this
time, but the news came out yesterday when Chief Davis was questioned during
the Robert Stewart trial. The board consensus was that Chief Davis was an
excellent choice and would do a great job.
   B.   Mr. Gilliam thanked the board for approving the text amendment
concerning campsite bathroom facilities. Mr. Gilliam also apologized for
missing the July meeting where the amendment was approved, but he thought that
the Commissioners were just going to set the date for the Public Hearing at
that meeting. Mr. Gilliam informed the board that on the third Saturday in
September a 100 year old lady Air Service Pilot will be speaking to his Pilot’s
group and the public will be invited. Mr. Gilliam requested that an invitation
be sent out with the water bills. Mr. Gilliam also reported that the Upchurch
monument may be placed at the airport.
   C.   Town Clerk Karen O’Hara distributed information on the 2011 NCLM Annual
Conference. There was some discussion and Town Clerk Karen O’Hara told the
commissioners to let her know if they were planning on attending. The
registration deadline is September 21, 2011.
VII.   CLOSED SESSION:
The board moved into closed session at 9:07 a.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition
of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer, following a
motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All
ayes. Motion carried. There was no action to be taken. On a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell the closed session was
closed at 10:33 a.m. Upon resuming open session there was much discussion on
the Code of Ethics of Board Members.
VIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 11:44 a.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Caddell and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All eyes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
AUGUST 15, 2011
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 15, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, August 15, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw, Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis,
Detective Robbie Mabe and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Doug Gill, Town Attorney; Ken Skipper, Moore County Fire
Marshall; Roland Gilliam, numerous concerned citizens and John Chappell,
reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Moore County Fire Marshall Ken Skipper addressed the board regarding
the Carthage Rescue Squad. Mr. Skipper indicated that the Rescue Squad was not
fulfilling their agreement and they were requesting that the Carthage Fire
Department take over providing this service. Mr. Skipper reported that the
Carthage Fire Department is already classified as “light duty” and would need
approximately $5,000.00 worth of equipment to be classified as “medium duty”.
Additional funding will be provided by the county and the Fire Department will
keep two separate budgets. The board agreed to accept the Contract Amendment to
provide emergency response service, which is and does become a part of these
minutes, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the Extension of the
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) surrounding the existing Carthage corporate
limits and to establish the Town of Carthage zoning for all land within the ETJ
expansion area at 7:12 p.m. Town Manager Carol Sparks explained that the ETJ
can extend one mile past the town limits and the last ETJ expansion was in
1998/1999. Town Manager Carol Sparks also pointed out that the zoning will
remain the same as it is under the county. Ella Boroughs who lives on Niagara
Carthage Road remarked that she had lived there for 50+ years and had no
problem with the county. She stated that this expansion will just lead to extra
taxes and she is opposed to it. Joan Robinson who lives on Hulsey Road stated
that she is concerned since she has a productive farm and being in the ETJ will
limit what can be done with her farm. She feels that it is silly to be in the
town’s jurisdiction. Doug Priest who did not give his address stated that he
does not want it. Steve Ingold who lives on Priest Hill Road wants to be safe
and make his own decisions. He sees this as having his individual freedom
removed. Tim Priest who did not give his address stated that people are afraid
of what they don’t know. Mr. Priest wants someone to show him some good things
that will come out of this. Barbara Shindler who lives on Dowd Road explained
that the expansion line is right down the middle of the Breezy Pines Farm
subdivision where she lives. Ms. Shindler stated that the subdivision has more
stringent rules than the town so she thinks the subdivision should be excluded.
Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at 7:46 p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 18, 2011
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session July 18, 2011
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks informed the board that the auditors would be here on Monday and
on Wednesday the divers will be here to clean the clear well.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   After some discussion the board agreed to extend the Extraterritorial
Planning and Zoning Jurisdiction (ETJ) following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Jean Riley the board approved that the Town of Carthage zoning will
apply for all land within the ETJ expansion area. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   The board agreed to set September 19, 2011 as the date for the Public
Hearing to amend the Carthage Development Ordinance to add the definition of
Live Auctions/Retail Merchandise and to add Live Auction as a Conditional Use
in the Central Business District following a motion made by Commissioner Barber
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board agreed to set September 19, 2011 as the date for the Public
Hearing to allow Live Auctions to be held at 104 N. McNeill Street as a
Conditional Use following a motion by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Jean Riley the board approved reappointing Vernon Kelly to the Planning
Board contingent on the approval of the County Board of Commissioners. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell the board approved reappointing Percy Degraffeinreid to
the Planning Board. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Caddell and seconded by
Commissioner McGraw the board approved reappointing Mark Fry to the Planning
Board. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not meet in August 2011. A copy of the Carthage
Historical Committee meeting minutes August 9, 2011 is attached which are and
do become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber thanked everyone who helped at the Dixie Youth Baseball
World Series and reported that he had heard many positive comments from people
who attended. Commissioner Barber commented that all departments are doing a
wonderful job. Commissioner Dowdy inquired as to whether there were any more
vacancies on the Appearance Committee and Town Manager Carol Sparks replied
that there are not. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that Lillie
Mae Barrett had just submitted an application to become a member of the
Historical Committee. Following a motion by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Barber the board approved appointing Ms. Barrett to the Historical
Committee with a term expiring June 30, 2015. All ayes. Motion carried.
Commissioner McGraw reported that he had talked to someone from the NCLM and
they had offered to come speak to the Appearance Committee. Commissioner
Caddell offered her congratulations to Police Chief Bart Davis on his
promotion.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
   A.   The board moved into closed session at 8:02 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S.
143-318.11 (a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance,
condition of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer
following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner
Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried. The board consulted with Town Attorney Doug
Gill on the topic they wanted to discuss in closed session. Mr. Gill informed
the board that if the topic had to do with a member of the governing body, it
was not allowed in closed session. The board returned to regular session at 8:
12 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Caddell and seconded by
Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried. There was no action to be taken.
   B.   Upon returning to regular session the board discussed the behavior of
one of the board members and stated that the integrity of the entire board was
being compromised. After much discussion the board agreed that they needed to
work together as a board, not as individuals.
XII.   ADJORNMENT:
Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 9:04 p.m.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 19, 2011
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 19, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, September 19, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw, Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis,
Detective Sergeant Robbie Mabe, Officer Lia Yang, Officer Danny Perry, Officer
Jeff Myrick, Administrative Assistant Chrystal Krieger and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner.
   Also present were Susan Hicks, Moore County Clerk of Court; Francis Bisby,
NCDOT Transportation Engineer; Jumetta Posey, NC CEO Neighborhood Solutions;
Lynn Kamer, Carthage Rescue Squad; Tracey Hofstetter and Tracy Blake, Carthage
business owners; family members of Chief Davis and Detective Sergeant Mabe;
numerous concerned citizens and John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot
newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Stewart gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Caddell led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Moore County Clerk of Court Susan Hicks swore in Bart Davis as Chief of
Police. Chief Davis’ father and brother pinned him.
   B.   Chief Davis announced the promotion of Detective Robbie Mabe to
Detective Sergeant. Detective Sergeant Mabes wife pinned him.
Reception
   A.    NCDOT Transportation Engineer Francis Bisby handed out a
Transportation Plan Summary; copy attached which is and does become a part of
these minutes, and thanked the board for allowing her this opportunity to
speak. Ms. Bisby informed the board that there have been many DOT staff changes
and delays with the 24/27 bypass project. Ms. Bisby indicated that DOT wants to
reach into the communities and make this a positive experience. According to
Ms. Bisby the old project, R22-12, was deferred but the corridor needs to be
preserved now. The county needs to preserve corridors on three major roadways,
Hwy 24/27, US 1 and NC 211 in order to improve mobility and connectivity. Ms.
Bisby requested that the board pick a panel of approximately 50 people to
participate in a training session to be held on Thursday, October 27, 2011 from
6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. NC Neighborhood Solutions CEO Jumetta Posey explained
that they will be hosting charrettes which will entail public participation in
an exercise called Strings and Ribbons which is designed to bring people
together and foster mutual understanding and respect. Ms. Posey stated that she
hoped that the Commissioners would participate in this process.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell, the board unanimously agreed to recuse Commissioner
McGraw since he has a conflict with the amendment to the Carthage Development
Ordinance adding Live Auctions under Retail Trade and adding Live Auction as a
Conditional Use in the Central Business District since the person requesting
the amendment is renting property from Commissioner McGraw that is in the
Central Business District. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Stewart opened the
Public Hearing on the request to add Live Auctions under Retail Trade to the
Carthage Development Ordinance Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses and to
add Live Auction as a Conditional Use in the Central Business District at 7:45
p.m. Commissioner Barber asked what the position of the Planning Board was on
this issue. Town Manager Carol Sparks responded that the Planning Board did not
have a quorum at their last meeting but the members who were there agreed this
should be approved. There were no other comments. Mayor Stewart closed the
Public Hearing at 7:59 p.m.
   B.   After a brief discussion, the board approved adding Live Auctions under
Retail Trade to the Carthage Development Ordinance Table of Permitted and
Conditional Uses and to add Live Auction as a Conditional Use in the Central
Business District following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on the request to allow Live
Auctions to be held as a Conditional Use at 104 N. McNeill Street at 8:02 p.m.
Tracey Hofstetter and Tracy Blake were sworn in by Town Clerk Karen O’Hara. Ms.
Hofstetter and Ms. Blake provided a description of their business and explained
that they wanted to hold auctions on Saturday from 7:00 to 11:00 p.m. They
indicated that they were going to focus on estate sales and everything would be
in the building except for an occasional car that was a part of the sale which
would be parked outside. A discussion was held concerning parking and having
Ms. Hofstetter and Ms. Blake talk to their neighbors about using their parking
lots. There were no other comments. Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing at
8:17 p.m.
   D.   Commissioner Dowdy asked Chief Davis if he saw any problems with the
request to allow Live Auctions to be held at 104 N. McNeill Street. Chief Davis
responded that he did not see any problems with noise, parking nor needing
extra police presence. Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board approved a Conditional Use permit
for Live Auctions to be held at 104 N. McNeill Street with the following
conditions:
      1.    An auctioneer will act as a moderator
      2.    Participants will bid on various goods; not to include livestock
      3.    Auctions will be held only on Saturday and will end by 11:00 p.m.
      4.    Any item on display outside will be removed the day of the auction
All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner McGraw returned to the meeting at 8:21
p.m.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting August 5, 2011
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session August 5, 2011
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 15, 2011
   D.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session August 15, 2011
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that the Fire Department Ladies Auxiliary had a very
successful yard sale and spaghetti dinner and Town Clerk Karen O’Hara will be
attending the NCLM Conference. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that no
property owners, other than Archie Kelly, had responded to her letter
requesting a meeting to discuss the downtown area. Commissioner McGraw
responded that he had talked to property owner Chuck Watson and Mr. Watson
indicated that he did not have any money but he is willing to help.
Commissioner Barber thanked Public Works Director Rocky Davis for the new fire
hydrants that he is installing. Commissioner Dowdy thanked Town Manager Carol
Sparks and Police Chief Bart Davis for their help in Needmore. Mayor Stewart
thanked the Police and Fire Departments for their help with the County Fair and
the Dixie Youth Baseball World Series.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board agreed to set October 17, 2011 as the date for the Public
Hearing to amend the Carthage Development Ordinance to add the definition of
Automobile Storage Facility and to add Automobile Storage Facility as a
Conditional Use in the Central Business District following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   The board agreed to set October 17, 2011 as the date for the Public
Hearing to hear a request to allow an Automobile Storage Facility to be located
at 207 E. Saunders Street as a Conditional Use following a motion by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that the Carthage Rescue Squad
minutes show that the squad approved giving the town their assets and
liabilities. The board reviewed the asset and liability list. Town Manager
Carol Sparks and Fire Chief Brian Tyner informed the board that the rescue
squad will receive $24,000 per year from the county, this amount can increase
based on the number of calls, and will also receive an additional $5,000 when
the ambulance is out of the shop and running again. Town Manager Carol Sparks
informed the board that they needed to make a motion in order for the town to
take over the payments for the truck; the decision to pay the other bills is
also up to the board. After much discussion, the board agreed to approve, that
with proper invoices, the following Carthage Rescue Squad liabilities should be
paid: truck payment, Garners Insurance, McNeill Oil, Emergency Apparatus (light
tower 305), Progress Energy, phone with internet and the three bills from
Phillips Motors, following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board did not have a quorum at their September meeting. A copy of
the Carthage Historical Committee meeting minutes September 12, 2011 and the
Carthage Appearance Committee meeting minutes July 12, 2011 and August 1, 2011
are attached which are and do become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber commented that having the town run the Carthage Rescue
Squad will be a good thing for the citizens. Commissioner Dowdy congratulated
Police Chief Bart Davis and all of his staff. Commissioner McGraw thanked the
town staff for their service. Commissioner Caddell congratulated Chief Davis
and thanked the staff for all that they do. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley seconded
everything that had already been said and congratulated the Historical
Committee on their blue ribbon win at the County Fair.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded by Commissioner
Caddell, Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 9:02 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Tom Stewart, Mayor
OCTOBER 17, 2011
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 17, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, October 17, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw, Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police
Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Tim Emmert, Appearance Committee Co-chair; Rick and
Kathleen Yow, Carthage business owners; John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot
newspaper and Paul Davis, citizen.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Appearance Committee Co-chair Tim Emmert reported to the board
concerning the meetings the committee have held. He stated that they are
looking at what other Towns have done and are looking into funding options to
be able to help the downtown appearance. The committee will meet again in
November. Mayor Stewart thanked Mr. Emmert for giving the report.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor Stewart opened the Public Hearing on a Request for a Zoning Text
Amendment to add Automobile Storage Facility under Business, Professional and
Personal Services to the Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses and to add
Automobile Storage Facility as a Conditional Use in the Central Business
District. Commissioner Dowdy asked what the consensus of the Planning Board was
on this request. Town Manager Sparks reported that the Planning Board
unanimously agreed to not approve recommending to the Board of Commissioners to
add Automobile Storage Facility to the Carthage Development Ordinance as a
Conditional Use in the Central Business District. After a motion to close the
Public Hearing by Commissioner Dowdy, seconded by Commissioner McGraw, all
ayes, Mayor Stewart closed the Public Hearing.
   B.   The decision on the Request for a Zoning Text Amendment was tabled with
fees to be waived, following a motion by Commissioner Caddell, seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Due to the request being tabled, there was no Public Hearing on the
Request for a Conditional Use Permit from Rick Yow to allow an Automobile
Storage Facility to be located at 207 E. Saunders Street.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner McGraw. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 19, 2011
   B.   Budget Amendments #1 and #2
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks asked the Board if there were any questions about her report.
Board members wanted to know why the residents in the proposed ETJ extension
were so opposed to extending the ETJ. Manager Sparks stated that they were
concerned about eventually being annexed, having to pay Town taxes and changing
the current zoning of their property.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS:
None.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Carthage Rescue Squad - Commissioner Barber made a motion to assume the
loan the Rescue Squad had with BB&T in the amount of $42,291.45 on the 2005
Ferrara Fire Crash Truck. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Riley and
passed unanimously.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A copy of the Planning Board meeting minutes of October 5, 2011 and the
Carthage Historical Committee minutes of October 10, 2011 are attached which
are and do become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
XII.   
Commissioner Barber asked Town Manager Sparks what area makes up the Central
Business District. Town Manager Sparks gave a description of the streets and
area which encompasses the CBD. Commissioner Dowdy thanked the Police
Department for increasing patrols within the Needmore community. Commissioner
Dowdy also requested that we might in some way notify citizens about future
meetings with NCDOT concerning the 24/27 project, such as posting notices. It
was mentioned that maybe we could use the Fire Department sign out front by the
highway. Commissioner McGraw congratulated Chief Bart Davis concerning the
letter that Town Manager Sparks received about the Chief. He also stated he
would like to thank the Fire and Public Works Department for all they do for
the Town. Commissioner Caddell stated she would like to thank all of the staff
of all the departments that work for the Town. Commissioner Riley stated she
totally agreed with Commissioner Caddell. Mayor Stewart stated that Cary
McSwain had contacted him to see if the Board would like to tour the new Public
Safety Building. Town Manager Sparks is to contact Mr. McSwain to set up a time
for the tour.
XIII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 7:43 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Linda Phillips, Asst.Mgr./Finance Officer       Tom Stewart, Mayor
NOVEMBER 21, 2011
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 21, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, November 21, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw, Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, Corporal
Ryan Flowers, Officer Michael Crumpler, Officer Danny Perry, Officer Stephen
Crutchfield and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Max Muse, Carthage Planning Board member; Starla Hughes,
CPA, Sharrard, McGee & Co. P.A.; Claudette Dowdy and Paul Davis, concerned
citizens.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Mayor Stewart added Max Muse to the agenda under Public Appearance. Mr.
Muse stated that he was there to present to the board the Planning Board’s
recommendation on adding a Zoning Text Amendment to add Automobile Storage
Facility as a Conditional use in the Central Business District. Mr. Muse
reported that the Planning Board voted unanimously not to approve recommending
to the Board of Commissioners that Automobile Storage Facility be added to the
Carthage Development Ordinance as a Conditional Use in the Central Business
District.
   B.   Police Chief Bart Davis introduced the departments new Police Officers:
Michael Crumpler, Stephen Crutchfield and Danny Perry. Chief Davis presented
certificates to Officer Crumpler and Officer Crutchfield who have completed
their training. Chief Davis reported that Officer Perry is very close to
completion. The Board welcomed the new officers.
   C.   Ms. Starla Hughes gave a presentation on the FY 2010/2011 audit. Ms.
Hughes reviewed the highlights of the audit. Mayor Stewart thanked Ms. Hughes
for her presentation.
V.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mr. Rick Yow was not present at the meeting so there was no Public
Hearing held.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Caddell. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 17, 2011
   B.   Budget Amendment #3
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks invited the board members to the Christmas tree lighting at the
Courthouse and to ride the float in the Christmas parade on Tuesday, December 6
th . Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that she and Public Works Director
Rocky Davis will be meeting with someone from NC Wildlife to discuss the
buzzard situation in town. Commissioner Dowdy inquired as to the date for the
opening of the St. Joseph’s assisted living facility and requested that the
town take a look at working something out to repave the street in front of that
facility. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that she had received landscape
plans for the new Credit Union, but did not know when they were going to start
construction. Commissioner Caddell asked about setting up a tour of the new
Public Safety building and Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that she and
County Manager Cary McSwain had been playing phone tag.
VII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley, the board agreed to change the December meeting to Tuesday,
December 13, 2011. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   After a brief discussion, the board agreed to adopt the resolution
adopting participation in the NCLM Green Challenge Program following a motion
made by Commissioner Caddell and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley, the board agreed to appoint Paul Davis to the Historical
Committee with a term to expire in June 2015. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Following a brief discussion, the board agreed to adopt the
encroachment agreement between the Town of Carthage and the Moore County
Airport Authority following a motion made by Commissioner McGraw and seconded
by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A copy of the Carthage Historical Committee minutes of November 7, 2011 is
attached which are and do become a part of these minutes. The Carthage Planning
Board did not meet in November and the Carthage Appearance Committee did not
meet in October.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy asked Fire Chief Brian Tyner what the town was doing with
the Carthage Rescue trucks. Chief Tyner responded that his department is
currently using some of the equipment but are still waiting for the bank
financing to be completed in order to enable the department to use the crash
truck. Commissioner Caddell congratulated the new mayor and stated that she has
enjoyed serving on the board. Commissioner Caddell also thanked all of the
staff for their hard work. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley agreed with Commissioner
Caddell and responded that she will miss Commissioner Caddell and Mayor
Stewart. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley welcomed Mr. Paul Davis to the Historical
Committee.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
McGraw, Mayor Stewart adjourned the meeting at 7:46 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk             Tom Stewart, Mayor
DECEMBER 13, 2011
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 13, 2011
7:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, December 13, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Tom Stewart, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Lee McGraw, Lisa Caddell and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire
Chief Brian Tyner.
   Distinguished guests present were Senator Harris Blake, Moore County Chamber
of Commerce President & CEO Patrick Coughlin, Reverend Rick Martindale,
Commissioner Elect Catherine Graham, family members of Lee McGraw, Tom Stewart,
Jean Riley, Lisa Caddell and Catherine Graham, concerned citizens.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stewart called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Reverend Rick Martindale gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Stewart led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following item, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 21, 2011
Mayor Stewart presented a plaque to Commissioner Caddell in appreciation of her
years of service on the Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners. Commissioner
Caddell thanked the board and the Town staff. Commissioner Caddell stated that
she had enjoyed serving and believes that the current town staff is one of the
best the town has had.
OATHS OF OFFICE: Mayor Stewart administered the oath of office to recently re-
elected Commissioner Jean Riley and Moore County Board of Commissioners
Chairman Larry Caddell administered the oath of office to Commissioner Elect
Catherine Graham and Mayor Elect Lee McGraw.
Senator Harris Blake presented a certificate to former Mayor Stewart from the
General Assembly, as well as a North Carolina flag that had flown over the
state capital along with a certificate from Governor Beverly Perdue. Former
Mayor Stewart thanked Senator Blake.
Moore County Chamber of Commerce President & CEO Patrick Coughlin spoke briefly
and had many words of praise for former Mayor Stewart. Mr. Coughlin stated that
the Mayor was a man of his word and he was proud to call him a friend. Former
Mayor Stewart thanked Mr. Coughlin.
Town Manager Carol Sparks presented a rocking chair to the former Mayor for his
many years of dedicated service to the Town.
RECEPTION: The board recessed for a reception at 7:16 p.m.
RESUME REGULAR MEETING: The board resumed the regular meeting at 7:47 p.m.
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:  
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks remarked on how well organized the local Fire Departments were
during the funeral for Deputy Sheriff Rick Rhyne. Town Manager Carol Sparks
informed the board that the Rural Center was very supportive of Carthage
submitting an application for the NC Step Program. Commissioner Dowdy
questioned why the town had so few Social Security numbers to submit to the
Debt Setoff Program. Town Manager Carol Sparks responded that it is optional
for customers to provide their Social Security number when applying for a water
account.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board agreed to appoint Jean Riley as Mayor Pro-Tem.
All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board agreed to appoint Commissioner Dowdy as an
authorized check signer. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   After a brief discussion, the board agreed to change the date of the
January meeting to Tuesday, January 17, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   D.   The board agreed to change the regular meeting date to the third
Tuesday of the month at 6:00 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Following a brief discussion, the board approved the resolution for the
NCDOT Landscaping Plan on a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Neither the Carthage Planning Board, the Carthage Appearance Committee nor the
Carthage Historical Committee meet in December.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley thanked the staff for the wonderful Christmas parade and
welcomed Commissioner Graham and Mayor McGraw to their new positions.
Commissioner Barber thanked the Fire Department and the Police Department for
doing a good job on the parade. Commissioner Dowdy suggested that the board
accept applications for the vacancy on the board. Town Manager Carol Sparks
said that she would talk to John Chappell about writing a story about the
vacancy and the town accepting applications. Commissioner Graham remarked that
she was looking forward to working with the board and making improvements.
Mayor McGraw commented that we have a good knowledgeable board to work with and
a great staff.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:09 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
2012 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 17, 2012
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 17, 2012
6:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, January 17, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, Corporal
Ryan Flowers, Sergeant John Gibbons, Detective Robbie Mabe, Officer Danny
Perry, Officer Mike Crumpler and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Others present were Theron Bell, former Mayor of Robbins; Mark Garner;
Cynthia Reeves; Billy Ingram and his nurse; Appearance Committee Co-Chair Nancy
McKenzie and members Annette McGraw, Bonnie Brown and John Barringer;
Historical Committee Chair Carol Steed and member Ann McCaskill and John
Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:09 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following item, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting December 13, 2011
The board approved the following item, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Budget Amendments #4, #5
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Police Chief Bart Davis presented the following to members of his
staff: Officer Danny Perry, Field Training Certificate; Corporal Ryan Flowers,
Lifesaving Award; Officer Mike Crumpler, Lifesaving Award and the Officer of
the Year Award.
   B.    Appearance Committee Co-Chair Nancy McKenzie gave a brief history of
the Town of Carthage and a description of the NC STEP program and the
application process. Ms. McKenzie reported that they had already received
several letters of support from local businesses and the committee is
requesting that the town board approve submitting the application. Theron Bell,
former Mayor of the Town of Robbins, then described their town’s experience
with the NC STEP grant they received. Ms. Bell indicated her willingness to
help the Town of Carthage. Mayor McGraw thanked Ms. McKenzie and Ms. Bell for
their presentations. After a brief discussion, the board agreed to approve
submitting an application to the NC Rural Center for an NC STEP grant following
a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:  
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that we now have three applications for the Commissioner
vacancy. She asked Mr. Chappell if he would write an article for the paper
about the Town of Carthage commissioner opening and the vacancy on the Planning
Board. Deadline for applications is February 24, 2012. Town Manager Carol
Sparks reminded the board about the Providence Place grand opening on Friday,
January 27 th and the Chamber dinner on February 2 nd .
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Following a motion by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board agreed to hold their annual budget retreat on Wednesday,
February 29, 2012 beginning at 8:30 a.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Following a motion by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, the board passed the Resolution Ratifying, Accepting and Approving the
Bylaws and Charter Resolution of the Triangle J Council of Governments. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The board appointed Commissioner Barber as their Triangle J Delegate
and Town Manager Carol Sparks as their Alternate Delegate following a motion
made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in January. A copy of the Carthage
Historical Committee meeting minutes January 9, 2012 and the Carthage
Appearance Committee meeting minutes September 12, 2011, November 14, 2011 and
January 9, 2012 are attached which are and do become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy commended the Public Works department on the excellent
quality and taste of the water. Commissioner Graham suggested that the board
schedule a retreat with the Appearance and Historical committees so that all of
the committee members and the board could get to know each other. Town Manager
Carol Sparks responded that we could put this topic on next month’s agenda.
Commissioner Barber asked Public Works Director Rocky Davis what he thought
about automatic flush valves and he also thanked the Public Works department
for the water quality and stated that he appreciated the efforts of the Fire
and Police Departments. Commissioner Barber stated that he would like to
rescind his motion, made at the December 13, 2011 meeting, changing the regular
meeting date to the third Tuesday of the month at 6:00 p.m. Following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham, the board
agreed to change the regular meeting date to the third Tuesday of the month at
6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.  Mayor McGraw thanked everyone for
attending the meeting.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:13 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 21, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 21, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, February 21, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire
Chief Brian Tyner.
   Others present were Tommy Prickett, Robert Nunnaley and Henry Downing from
Fry & Prickett Funeral Home; concerned citizens Paul Davis, Tommy McKenzie,
Roland Gilliam, Walter Mann and two Boy Scouts.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 17, 2012
   B.   Budget Amendments #6 & #7
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Robert Nunnaley and Henry Downing from Fry & Prickett Funeral Home
gave a presentation on Green Burial. Mr. Downing defined green burial as
returning a person to earth. He stated that there are different levels of green
burial and since Cross Hill Cemetery does not require that a vault be used, it
is already using some aspects of green burial. Mr. Downing informed the board
that Fry & Prickett is requesting that a section of Cross Hill Cemetery be
designated as strictly for green burials using biodegradable embalming products
and biodegradable caskets, shrouds and urns. After some discussion, Mayor
McGraw thanked the gentlemen for their presentation and said that the board
would take the request under consideration.
   B.    Roland Gilliam invited the board to attend the dedication of the Hoyle
Upchurch monument on Saturday, April 7 at 12:00 p.m. at the airport. A Chinese
delegation is coming here for the ceremony and a replica of the P40 War Hawk
that Mr. Upchurch flew will be placed adjacent to the McConnell monument. Mayor
McGraw thanked Mr. Gilliam for the invitation.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:  
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported the she had just come from the County Commissioners
meeting and the consensus of that board was that the County would fund the
Viper system for the municipalities. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that
Public Works Director Rocky Davis had researched automatic flushers and
Commissioner Barber reported that he also had some information. Commissioner
Dowdy asked about the master meter installed at Martin’s Mobile Home Park and
suggested that the Town should get a signed statement from Mr. Martin
indicating that he has taken over responsibility for the water lines and the
Town is no longer responsible. Town Manager Carol ’’’’Sparks’’ responded that
she would check with the Town Attorney.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board discussed dates for the retreat with the Appearance and
Historical Committees. The board chose April 2 or April 23 at 6:00 p.m. Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara will check with the Committees and the Commissioners before
the Budget Retreat.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Mayor McGraw informed the board that both the Triangle J Council of
Governments (TJCOG) Delegate and Alternate Delegate need to be elected
officials so the board needed to appoint an Alternate. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley made
a motion to nominate Commissioner Graham as the Alternate Delegate.
Commissioner Graham respectfully declined the nomination and Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley withdrew her motion. After some discussion, the board agreed to appoint
Commissioner Dowdy as the Alternate Delegate following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
Commissioner Barber gave a summary of the TJCOG meeting he attended.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in February. A copy of the Carthage
Historical Committee meeting minutes February 13, 2012 is attached which is and
does become a part of these minutes.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley acknowledged and commended Officer Crumpler for assisting a
citizen driving through town who had car problems. Commissioner Dowdy discussed
a citizen who had called him about the numerous vultures around her residence.
Discussion followed concerning this ongoing problem. Commissioner Graham stated
that she had learned a lot at the Essentials of Municipal Government class, but
she still had a lot to learn. Commissioner Barber suggested giving the Chinese
delegation books about Carthage. He also suggested dressing up the entrances to
town and mentioned that the DOT needs to pull the dirt back on Sunset.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Roland Gilliam stated that it would be nice if the Chinese delegation could
receive a police escort from the Raleigh airport to Carthage. Police Chief
Davis stated that he would check on it. Mr. Gilliam also remarked that he found
out that the Post Office he has at the airport was built in 1906 not 1933. Paul
Davis asked for clarification of the proposed retreat dates.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:45 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
 
FEBRUARY 24, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
FEBRUARY 24, 2012
8:30 A.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Friday, February 24, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. in the Fire Department
located at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber and Catherine Graham. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire
Chief Brian Tyner.
   Special guests attending were Andy Honeycutt and Chris Goodwin from
DavenportLawrence.
   The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2012/
2013 budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
The board ate breakfast at 8:30 a.m. and Mayor McGraw called the meeting to
order at 8:58 a.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   DISCUSSION OF VIPER FUNDING:
Commissioner Barber reported that Chatham County is only placing one Viper
radio per station, not switching all of their radios. He stated that he has
heard that there are some problems with the system. Town Manger Carol Sparks
informed the board that at the County Commissioners meeting, there was a
consensus of the board members that the County will pay the cost of installing
the Viper system for the municipalities. The board agreed, following a motion
by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, that if the county
does not approve a motion to pay the municipality costs for the Viper system at
their March 6, 2012 meeting, they will send a letter to the county indicating
their opposition to the municipalities having to pay for the Viper system. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   FINANCE DEPARTMENT FY 2012-2013 BUDGET PROCESS:
The board reviewed the following items: FY 2012-2013 budget process, budget/
fund balance summary, the outstanding debt as of June 2012 and the current fee
and rate schedule. In reviewing the budget/fund balance summary, Assistant Town
Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips explained that the budget is a plan for
the year but sometimes changes have to be made during the year. Ms. Phillips
reviewed the balance summary current vs. actual and the charts showing tax
valuation, fund balance and interest income. A discussion was held on privilege
license rates, which are set by the state, and charging companies who only do
occasional work in town. The board discussed the use of the Community Building
and the consensus was that the building is for the use of the citizens. Ms.
Phillips reported that there is no plan to raise water/sewer rates at this
time, but if we get the USDA loan to make lift station improvements, the USDA
will probably require the town to raise the sewer rates. The board discussed
the water deposit amount charged as well as the removal of trash cans from the
street after pick up.
V.   FIRE DEPARTMENT:
Fire Chief Brian Tyner presented the board with the Fire Department proposed
budget for FY 2012-2013. Chief Tyner explained that the stretcher they got from
the Rescue Squad is dangerous and outdated. He indicated that the ambulance
should be on the road in a month and that they will transport during the day,
but EMS will handle transporting at night. A discussion was held concerning
charging a rescue service fee. Chief Tyner indicated that some squads do and
the board requested that the Chief research the possibility. Chief Tyner stated
that he is economizing where possible now because of the gas prices and he has
51 firemen including volunteer and paid staff. Chief Tyner explained that he is
proposing to change the pay per call to a scale based on experience and
training. Personnel do not get paid pay per call if they respond during their
shift. The board requested that Chief Tyner look at going out six miles in
order to collect the fire tax. Chief Tyner informed the board that he has used
the new training center numerous times and the board asked for clarification on
the hydrant colors. Town Manager Carol Sparks praised Chief Tyner’s job
performance.
VI.   POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Police Chief Bart Davis presented the board with the Police Department proposed
budget for FY 2012-2013. Chief Davis informed the board that he was requesting
an increase in a few of his line items while decreasing a few others. He
explained his request to purchase new fleet vehicles and the quotes he
received. Chief Davis informed the board that the old vehicles would be
auctioned off. The board requested that the Chief obtain quotes from local
businesses in addition to the ones he had already received. The board discussed
the quotes Chief Davis had gotten for adding a security system to the police
department and suggested that the Chief obtain additional quotes on securing
the entire building. Chief Davis reported that he is requesting one more full
time patrol officer so that there can be two officers on duty every night.
Chief Davis introduced Chris Goodwin and Andy Honeycutt from DavenportLawrence
who presented an assessment of the town’s information technology. Mayor McGraw
thanked Mr. Goodwin and Mr. Honeycutt. The board adjourned for lunch at 12:22
p.m.
VII.   PUBLIC WORKS:  
The board reconvened the Special Meeting at 1:09 p.m. with Director of Public
Works Rocky Davis presenting his proposed budget for FY 2012-2013. Mr. Davis
informed the board that he was not asking for any more money; he was just
moving it around. The board reviewed various items with some discussion about
the cemetery. The board reviewed and discussed various unfunded items including
repairs to the clear well. The board reviewed the Capital Improvement Program.
VIII.   ADMINISTRATION:  
The board reviewed the quote for the message sign. Commissioner Graham stated
that she would like to pursue purchasing a sign for outside of town hall. Town
Manager Carol Sparks explained that the CDBG and Rural Center grants that
Little River has been awarded have been held in limbo for two years with
nothing progressing at Little River. Following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, the board agreed to proceed, with
the consent of the Town Attorney, to withdraw from the CDBG and Rural Center
grant and ask the attorney to write the letter. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms.
Sparks explained that it has been getting harder and harder to get sponsors for
the Buggy Festival and requested that the town contribute $2,000 to the
festival. The board approved allocating $2,000 to the Buggy Festival this year,
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Sparks reported that NCDOT will cut the
weeds and plant plants where requested, but the town will have to pay for the
plants and maintain them. Mayor McGraw requested reviewing the town ordinances
concerning chickens and noise. The board consensus was that they would like to
interview the applicants for the commissioner vacancy after the next board
meeting.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER EVALUATION:  
The board agreed to postpone the Managers evaluation until June. Following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the
board agreed to do a manager evaluation once a year at the budget workshop in
June. All ayes. Motion carried.    
X.   ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 3:02 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All eyes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 15, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 15, 2012
6:15 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Thursday, March 15, 2012 at 6:15 p.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber and Catherine Graham. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk/Development
Administrator Karen O’Hara, Board of Commissioner applicants Pat Motz-Frazier,
Dennis Kirby, Bobby Plowman, Robert Sullivan, Donna Bastarache, Jimmy
Chalflinch and concerned citizen, Paul Davis.
   The purpose of the meeting was to interview applicants for the vacancy on
the Board of Commissioners.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. The board had a list of
prepared questions and agreed that each applicant interview would last for
fifteen minutes.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
The first applicant to be interviewed was Pat Motz-Frazier. Mayor McGraw
explained the process and the board asked questions. Commissioner Riley thanked
Ms. Motz-Frazier for being there. After the interview, Ms. Motz-Frazier thanked
everyone.
The second applicant was Dennis Kirby. The board members introduced themselves
and Mayor McGraw explained the process. The board asked questions. Commissioner
Graham thanked Mr. Kirby for being there. Mr. Kirby remarked that he originally
was interested in the vacancy on the Planning Board. After the interview, Mr.
Kirby thanked the board for the opportunity.
The next applicant was Robert Sullivan. Mr. Sullivan gave some background on
himself. Mayor McGraw explained the process and the board asked questions.
After the interview, Mr. Sullivan told the board he was glad to be there.
The next applicant was Donna Bastarache. The board members introduced
themselves and Mayor McGraw explained the process. The board asked questions.
Commissioner Riley commented to Ms. Bastarache that she had an impressive
resume. Ms. Bastarache commented that she would serve in any capacity the board
would like her to. Following the interview, Ms. Bastarache thanked the board.
The final applicant was Jimmy Chalflinch. Mayor McGraw explained the process
and the board asked questions. Commissioner Riley thanked Mr. Chalflinch for
showing interest. After the interview, Mr. Chalflinch told the board it was
good to see you all.
Another applicant, J.D. Monroe was unable to make the interview. After some
discussion, Commissioner Graham suggested that the board do a background check
on all of the applicants. The board requested that Town Manager Carol Sparks
check with Doug Gill, the Town Attorney, about the legality of doing this.
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:11 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 20, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 20, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, March 20, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham and Artie Barber. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire
Chief Brian Tyner.
   Others present were Dr Aaron Spence, Superintendent Moore County Schools;
Mr. Tim Lussier, Advisor for Community Relations, Moore County Schools; Nancy
Phillips, President Carthage Garden Club and numerous club members; Carol
Steed, Chair Carthage Historical Committee and John Chappell, reporter for The
Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Graham led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following item, with a correction to indicate that
Commissioner Graham respectfully declined the nomination to be the TJCOG
Alternate Delegate, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded
by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 21, 2012
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 24, 2012
   B.   Transfer of Funds A
   C.   Budget Amendments #8 , #9
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Mayor McGraw added Dr. Aaron Spence to the agenda under Public
Appearance. Dr. Spence spoke concerning the goals and objectives of the Moore
County School system. He presented his background in education and some of the
challenges he feels the system is facing. Mayor McGraw thanked Dr. Spence and
Mr. Lussier for an informative presentation.
   B.    Nancy Phillips handed out a letter to all of the Commissioners from
the Garden Club. Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes.
Ms. Phillips read the letter out loud. Commissioner Dowdy and Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley thanked the club for all that they do. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board approved
accepting the Tyson Kitchen building from the Garden Club. All ayes. Motion
carried. The Garden Club thanked the board.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:  
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Commissioner
Barber asked a question concerning the filters at the water plant and also
requested that the commissioners be given a heads up on any meetings that are
going to be held. Commissioner Dowdy requested that the board tour the water
plant. The board agreed to plan the tour for Monday, April 23, 2012 at 5:00
p.m. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board that they were all invited to
a public information briefing at the Moore County Airport.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board discussed the Hoyle Upchurch Memorial Dedication and decided
they would like to put up a banner, in English and Chinese, welcoming the
Chinese delegation to town. The board adopted the Resolution Supporting
Preserving Nation’s Heritage, following a motion by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
XV.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in March. A copy of the Carthage
Historical Committee meeting minutes March13, 2012 and the Appearance Committee
meeting minutes February 13, 2012 are attached which are and do become a part
of these minutes.
XVI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Per the motion made and approved at the February 24, 2012 Special Meeting,
Commissioner Barber requested that the Town Manager send the letter to the
County indicating the town’s opposition to paying for the VIPER system as soon
as possible. Mayor McGraw thanked all of the departments, the Town Manger and
staff for doing a good job.
XVII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Police Chief Bart Davis reported that he and Fire Chief Brian Tyner had
attended the Emergency Management course in Maryland last week. It was an
intense course focusing on response and recovery. Both gentlemen indicated that
they had learned a lot. Commissioner Barber asked Chief Tyner if he had heard
anything about the ISO inspection. Chief Tyner reported he has not heard
anything yet. John Chappell reported that the Mayor had made a good impression
on the Rotary Club when he presented his suggestions for the area by the ball
field.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:08 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 22, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 22, 2012
6:15 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Thursday, March 22, 2012 at 6:15 p.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in
Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber and Catherine Graham. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk/Development
Administrator Karen O’Hara, concerned citizens Paul Davis, Debra Stringer and
John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
   The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the applicants for the Board of
Commissioners vacancy.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:16 p.m. Mayor McGraw asked if
there was any discussion about any of the applicants. There was no discussion.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier was appointed to fill the vacancy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
The board agreed to swear Ms. Motz-Frazier in to office at the April meeting.
Commissioner Dowdy commented that this was a difficult decision because there
were many good applicants, but Ms. Motz-Frazier stood out for everything she
has already done for the town.
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:20 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 17, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 17, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, April 17, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine
Graham and Artie Barber. A quorum was present. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley was
absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Others present were Clerk of Court Susan Hicks; Pat Motz-Frazier, her mother
Betty Shea and brother Steve Shea; Steve Ennis, United Country Realty;
concerned citizens Debbie Stringer and Paul Davis and John Chappell, reporter
for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Paul Davis led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
SWEARING IN CEREMONY: Clerk of Court Susan Hicks administered the Oath of
Office to newly appointed Commissioner Pat Motz-Frazier. Mayor McGraw and the
Board welcomed Commissioner Motz-Frazier.
RECEPTION: The board recessed at 6:37 p.m. to hold a reception for Commissioner
Motz-Frazier. The board reconvened the regular meeting at 6:49 p.m.
Mayor McGraw informed the board that before the Buggy Festival on May 12, 2012,
an artist will be painting a mural and installing it on the outside wall of the
barbershop building on the corner of Monroe and McNeill Streets. He reported
that a group of individuals is paying for this mural, not the town.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, with a correction to the March 20, 2012
minutes to indicate that Commissioner Barber requested that the Town Manager
send the letter to the County indicating the town’s opposition to paying for
the VIPER system as soon as possible per the motion made and approved by the
board at the February 24, 2012 Special Meeting, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   A.   Corrected Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 21,
2012
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting March 15, 2012
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 20, 2012
   D.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting March 22, 2012
   E.   Development Permit for Walmart Express
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Jill Hensley did not attend the meeting. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the board approved
tabling the request concerning the sewer lift station at Tyson Woods. All ayes.
Motion carried.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:  
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks congratulated Town Clerk Karen O’Hara for obtaining her Certified
Municipal Clerk (CMC) designation. The Board offered their congratulations to
Ms. O’Hara. Ms. Sparks reported that Walmart is signing the papers today and
they are planning on opening in September. Commissioner Barber asked Director
of Public Works Rocky Davis about the status of the flushing valve on Sunset
Drive. Mr. Davis reported that there was some damage done to some of the parts
and they were still working on it. The board confirmed the meetings on Monday,
April 23, 2012 at 5:00 p.m. and 6:00p.m.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board agreed to hold a Budget Workshop on Thursday, May 17, 2012 at
2:00 p.m. in the Fire Department.
   B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved declaring the 1979 International Wrecker
as surplus to be advertised on GovDeals.com. All ayes. Motion carried.
Commissioner Dowdy requested that the board be informed how much the wrecker is
sold for.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   After some discussion, the board approved the Moore County/Town of
Carthage Sewage Treatment and Disposal Service Contract based on the previous
board’s approval of the same contract, with a change to Section C, number 4 to
indicate untreated sewage, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
XV.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A copy of the Carthage Planning Board meeting minutes April 5, 2012 are
attached which are and do become a part of these minutes. A copy of the
Carthage Historical Committee meeting minutes April 10, 2012 are attached which
are and do become a part of these minutes.
XVI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber requested that the board prepare a resolution honoring John
Frye for being inducted into the North Carolina Hall of Fame and present it to
him at the next meeting. He also thanked John Chappell for his work on the
Hoyle Upchurch dedication. Commissioner Graham remarked that the Police
Department looked very professional at the dedication. She also requested that
the board prepare a resolution honoring Kay Davis for her volunteer service to
the community. Commissioner Graham remarked that the board should take a look
at the Town ordinances concerning landscaping and building facades. She also
requested that review of an internet café ordinance be placed on the May
agenda. Commissioner Dowdy thanked all of the departments for doing a great
job. Commissioner Motz-Frazier reported that she is working on getting the
Merchants Group going again. She also thanked everyone. Mayor McGraw thanked
Public Works and the Police and Fire Departments for helping at the dedication.
Mayor McGraw requested that each Commissioner pick an area of town to follow up
with each month. He recommended that the board review the trash can ordinance.
XVII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Debbie Stringer stated that the town should insist that new businesses put in
sidewalks and trees. John Chappell thanked the town for their work on the
dedication event.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:44 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 23, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 23, 2012
6:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Monday, April 23, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean
Riley was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk/Development
Administrator Karen O’Hara, Appearance Committee members Tim Emmert, Nancy
McKenzie, Annette McGraw, Bonnie Brown, Hilda Morris, Mary Jane Grimm and John
Baringer, Historical Committee members Carol Steed, Major Killian, Helen Mohan,
Dora Ann Maness, Don McCaskill, Ann McCaskill, Paul Davis and John McDonald.
   The purpose of the meeting was to hold a retreat with the Appearance
Committee and the Historical Committee.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:06 p.m.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
Carol Steed, Chair of the Historical Committee stated that the goal of the
committee is to preserve the history of Carthage. Mayor McGraw asked Ms. Steed
what the committee’s wish lists of needs were. Ms. Steed stated that they would
like internet service for the museum, more manikins for display purposes, to
turn the attic into usable space, purchase a library ladder and have money for
publicity. Ms. Steed remarked that the group would like to make the museum more
like a “real museum”. There was some discussion on possible options to put up a
sign publicizing the museum. Ms. Steed indicated that the committee was working
on a budget to present to the commissioners.
Mayor McGraw stated that a mural has been painted to be installed on Mr. Fox’s
building at the corner of McNeill Street and Monroe Street. He stated that he
would like approval of both committees before installing the mural.
Tim Emmert, Co-Chair of the Appearance Committee stated that this was a new
committee whose goal is to improve the appearance of the town. The committee
has been discussing the downtown area and wants to designate a test area to
work on. Mr. Emmert presented a drawing done by Nancy McKenzie showing some
suggestions for improving a block on McReynolds Street. Mr. Emmert stated that
the Historical Committee could assist the Appearance Committee in making sure
that any improvements are historically accurate. Some members of the committee
have already met with the Master Gardeners to discuss types of plants to use.
The committee is also considering designing a scorecard to rank beautification
projects that are suggested.
Mayor McGraw described a project which involved painting the downtown windows
of empty buildings. He is trying to get the high school art classes to assist
with this project. Mayor McGraw stated that Carthage did not get picked for the
NC Step Grant this time. Commissioner Dowdy suggested that citizens should
bring their suggestions/concerns about cleaning up the town to the board.
Commissioner Barber proposed starting an Adopt the Street program. There was
some discussion about Rick Yow’s lot and the financial state of the Town and
the Fund Balance. Commissioner Graham stated that she appreciated both
Committees hard work and to keep it going.
Commissioner Barber gave the closing prayer.
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:44 p.m.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 15, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 15, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, May 15, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier, Catherine Graham and Artie Barber. A
full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Others present were Kay Davis, Larry Davis, John Frye, Robert Sullivan, Dora
Ann Maness, Carol Steed, Tommy & Worthy McKenzie, John & Carol Kershaw, Paul
Davis and John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Corrected Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 20, 2012
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 17, 2012
   C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting April 23, 2012
   D.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting April 23, 2012
   E.   Budget Amendments #10, #11, #12
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Jill Hensley did not attend the meeting.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:  
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. There was a brief
discussion on the trash can removal ordinance and setting a specific amount of
footage off of the curb. Town Manager Carol Sparks reported that a commercial
real estate developer is working on a contract with O’Reilly Auto Parts to
purchase the Salmon Auto Parts property. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham, the board agreed to
hold a joint meeting with the Planning Board on June 7, 2012 to discuss
possible ordinance changes. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy
requested that someone from DOT be present at this meeting. 
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved the resolution honoring Kay Davis, following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Davis thanked the board.
   B.   The board approved the resolution honoring John Frye, following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier.
All ayes. Motion carried. Mr. Frye thanked the board. 
   C.   After a brief discussion, the board agreed to set June 19, 2012 as the
date to hold a Public Hearing on amending the Town of Carthage Development
Ordinance to define and regulate Electronic Gaming Operations, following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Jean Riley, the board agreed to set June 19, 2012 as the date to hold a
Public Hearing on the Conditional Use request for an Indoor Firing Range at 261
Niagara Carthage Road. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The board agreed to declare the 2005 Crown Victoria surplus to be
advertised on GovDeals.com, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   After some discussion, the board agreed to waive the fee for a sign
permit one time for an existing business to change their sign, following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier.
All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Mayor McGraw reported that Nancy McKenzie, Co-chair of the Appearance
Committee, has requested that the Town’s Public Works department go to Big
Bloomers in Tramway and pick up some flower pots that Hilda Morris has donated
to the committee and help place them in town. The board consensus was to allow
the Public Works department to do this.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Carthage Planning Board did not meet in May.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Riley stated that she had received wonderful comments on the Buggy
Festival and she thanked the committee. Commissioner Barber agreed that the
Buggy Festival was wonderful this year and he congratulated Ms. Davis and Mr.
Frye. Commissioner Graham thanked Public Works for cleaning up after the
festival. She requested that the Town Manager contact Mr. Klug about the
deteriorating condition of his bench in front of Mr. B’s. Commissioner Graham
requested that the Town let the holly trees on Monroe Street grown out.
Commissioner Dowdy remarked that he would like to see the Appearance Committee
and the Historical Committee bring their suggestions to the board before acting
on them. He agreed with all of the other commissioner’s remarks. Mayor McGraw
stated that he enjoyed the Buggy Festival and the Friday night activities and
he thanked Ms. Davis and Mr. Frye. He also apologized if he has been
overzealous about the Appearance Committee.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Carol Steed, Chair of the Historical Committee, reported that the group raised
$415.50 at the Buggy Festival. Ms. Steed reported that she has a budget
proposal to submit to the board to consider at their Budget Workshop. Carol
Kershaw inquired about an ordinance requiring that old signs be taken down.
John Kershaw remarked that the state will eventually set restrictions for the
electronic gaming industry. John Chappell reported that the Town of Robbins
categorized Internet Café’s under Retail Sales.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:40 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
 
MAY 17, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 17, 2012
2:00 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Thursday, May 17, 2012 at 2:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A
full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire
Chief Brian Tyner.
   The purpose of the meeting was to hold a budget workshop.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the proposed budget is 2.33% more than
last year. Ms. Sparks reviewed the proposed budget highlights, including the
Property Tax Valuation, Fire District Valuation and General Fund. Ms. Sparks
explained that there has not been a tax increase in 18 years and Ms. Phillips
stated that taxes may need to be increased in the near future due to the cost
of providing services. Ms. Sparks also stated that at this time there will not
be a water/sewer increase, but if the Town receives the USDA grant/loan, then
the rates would have to be adjusted. After some discussion, the consensus of
the board was that the employees will receive a 2% pay increase and one
additional day off. The board reviewed the budget submitted by the Historical
Committee and after much discussion, the board consensus was that the Town
would pay for the telephone and internet service for the Museum; other
requested expenses would be paid out of their fundraising money. After
additional discussion, the consensus of the board was that the Town would
budget $800 for the Appearance Committee, to be spent in accordance with the
Town’s purchase policy.
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 4:04 p.m.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
 
 
JUNE 7, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/JOINT MEETING
WITH PLANNING BOARD
JUNE 7, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on
Thursday, June 7, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A
full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Planning Board members Chris Lassiter, Mark Fry, Connie Burns, Percy
Degraffenried, Max Muse, concerned citizens Debbie Stringer, Roland Gilliam and
John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
   The purpose of the meeting was to hold a joint meeting with the Planning
Board.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m. and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
Town Manager Carol Sparks presented a summary of the Regional Hazard Mitigation
Plan. Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board approved the Agreement to Participate in a
Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Sparks explained that Electronic Gaming is now legal and the School of
Government suggests that municipalities adopt an ordinance to allow these
businesses in certain areas. The board has scheduled a Public Hearing on June
19 th to consider the proposed ordinance and privilege license tax. After much
discussion, the consensus of the Planning Board was that the Town should adopt
an ordinance to regulate where the Electronic Gaming Operations can be located.
Ms. Sparks reported that she had talked to an Engineer at DOT and he indicated
that DOT will not install curb and gutter on Hwy 24-27 (Monroe Street) because
of the expense and the fact that DOT is already behind on their current
projects. The engineer remarked that if the town required Wal-Mart to install
curb, gutter and a sidewalk, it would be the only business in an established
area with sidewalk going nowhere. Roland Gilliam, who is in the business of
installing sidewalks, explained the process and cost of installation.
Planning Board Chairman Chris Lassiter remarked that he felt that the Town
needed to be careful as to how picky we are concerning new businesses. Everyone
wants everything to look nice, but we need to move away from heavy regulation
and make it easier for businesses to come here.
Ms. Sparks provided information she had gathered from other municipalities on
color palates and tree ordinances. The Village of Pinehurst is the only local
municipality that has a color palate and this is because the entire Village is
considered historical. The Town of Aberdeen is the only local town with a tree
ordinance. Tree ordinances must be granted by the General Assembly.
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley expressed her gratitude to the Planning Board stating that
it is nice to hear comments and opinions from the board.
Ms. Sparks informed the boards that Vernon Kelly has resigned from the Planning
Board due to his personal situation and the Planning Board requested that we
present Mr. Kelly with a plaque of appreciation at the June 19 th board
meeting.
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:31 p.m.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 19, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 19, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, June 19, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier, Catherine Graham and Artie Barber. A
full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk/Development Administrator Karen
O’Hara, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire
Chief Brian Tyner.
   Others present were Vernon Kelly, Planning Board members Chris Lassiter and
Connie Burns, Vass business owner Reid Greene, Indoor Shooting Range
Representative James Joust, concerned citizens Tommie and Worthy McKenzie, Matt
Friede, David Puckett, Lauren Kenefick and Andrew Soboeiro, reporter for The
Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 15, 2012
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting May 17, 2012
   C.   Write off 2007 Delinquent Water Accounts
   D.   Transfer of Funds B
   E.   Budget Amendments #13, #14, #15
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    The Board presented Vernon Kelly with a plaque for his years of
service on the Carthage Planning Board. Mr. Kelly thanked the Board and stated
that he had enjoyed working with the Planning Board and the Board of
Commissioners.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING 
   A.    Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the FY 2012-2013 Budget at
6:34 p.m. There were no comments or questions from the public. Mayor McGraw
closed the Public Hearing at 6:35 p.m. The board adopted the FY 2012-2013
Budget and Budget Ordinance following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.    Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the Electronic Gaming
Ordinance/Privilege License Tax at 6:36 p.m. Reid Greene, owner of an
Electronic Gaming business in Vass, informed the board that his business is
located in a nice remodeled building and he would like to come to Carthage. He
requested that Carthage put a cap on the tax, stating that Aberdeen and
Southern Pines taxes are much too high. Mr. Greene reported that his business
is 80% women and he serves food on weekends. Concerned citizen Matt Friede
stated that he has lived in Carthage for 10 years and has raised his children
here. He commented that he has issues with gambling and is against the lottery.
Mr. Friede stated he would rather see Electronic Gaming businesses outside of
the town limits and the town needs to protect those that cannot protect
themselves. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:46 p.m. Town Manager
Carol Sparks summarized the law concerning Electronic Gaming and after much
discussion the board tabled the Electronic Gaming Ordinance/Privilege License
Tax until next month following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried. The board requested
that Town Attorney Doug Gill be present at the July meeting to answer questions
concerning this issue.
   C.    Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the Indoor Shooting Range at
6:55 p.m. James Joust, Shooting Range Representative, informed the board that
it would be a 20 station indoor shooting range with modern acoustical control;
there would be no noise outside. Mr. Joust referenced a facility, Gun Plus
Indoor Shooting Range in Fayetteville, which is similar to what is being
requested for Carthage. Mayor McGraw stated that he has been to the facility in
Fayetteville and there is no noise. Mr. Joust reported that plans were to have
the facility open seven days a week from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. and offer a
discount to law enforcement. Carthage Shooting Sports may run the retail store.
Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 7:03 p.m. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board approved the
request from John O’Malley for a Conditional Use Permit to build an Indoor
Shooting Range, with the Special Requirement that the facility shall be
designed to absorb sound to the maximum extent feasible, at 261 Niagara
Carthage Road. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. The board
requested that the Town Manager give the board a complete list of the items
that are sold on GovDeals.com. Commissioner Graham commented that she thought
paving the grass circle and making the entrance to the cu-d-sac larger on
Bingham Street were a great idea.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board approved the purchase and finance, in the amount of
$205,364.54, from Ford Motor Credit for six (6) 2013 Ford PI sedans with police
package, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board approved reappointing Chris Lassiter to the
Carthage Planning Board for another three year term. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board approved reappointing Connie Burns to the
Carthage Planning Board for another three year term. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The board approved reimbursing Town Board members the IRS standard
mileage rate for out of town business travel retroactive to January 2012
following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A copy of the Carthage Appearance Committee meeting minutes May 21, 2012 and
June 11, 2012 and the Carthage Historical Committee meeting minutes May 8, 2012
and June 12, 2012 are attached, which are and do become a part of these
minutes. The board reviewed Public Works Director Rocky Davis’ plan, a copy is
attached, which is and does become a part of these minutes, for building and
placing planters on McReynolds Street. The board consensus was that Mr. Davis
should proceed with the project.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Graham stated that she has been approached by citizens concerned
because the post office is now closing from 12:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. Ms. Sparks
reported that she had sent an email to Representative Howard Coble about this
situation and she will call Sue Shuster, Village Manager of Whispering Pines to
request that she contact Representative Coble. Ms. Sparks will also contact
County Manager Cary McSwain to request that the County Commissioners do the
same. Mayor McGraw announced that the Town of Carthage is the third town in
Moore County to join the Triangle J Council of Governments.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
David Puckett who lives in Tyson Woods described the problems that the
residents are having in that sub-division with their sewer pumps. He discussed
the possibility of the town installing a pump station instead of each resident
having their own individual pump. The board informed Mr. Puckett that this
topic would be added to the July 17, 2012 meeting agenda. Lauren Kenefick spoke
concerning setting up a craft and farmers market in Carthage. Various locations
were suggested and the board told Ms. Kenefick that this subject would be added
to the July 17, 2012 meeting agenda.
XIII.   
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 17, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 17, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, July 17, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A quorum was present. Mayor Pro-
Tem Jean Riley was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Public Works Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Town Attorney Doug Gill.
   Others present were Appearance Committee members Nancy McKenzie, Bonnie
Brown and Annette McGraw; Bill Lester, Hobbs Upchurch Associates; Allen Hart,
USDA; Reid Greene, Danielle Orloff and John Basil, Internet Café business
owners; concerned citizen Lauren Kenefick; Tyson Woods residents David Puckett
and Heidi Oxendine as well as other concerned citizens from this development
and John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:36 p.m.
II.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 7, 2012
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 19, 2012
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.    Allen Hart, Area Specialist for the USDA, handed out packets of
information to the board; a copy attached which is and does become a part of
these minutes. Mr. Hart summarized the information in the packets and reviewed
all of the requirements for the grant/loan. After a brief discussion, the board
voted to adopt the resolution stating that the Town of Carthage would accept
the conditions set forth in a Letter of Conditions from the USDA dated July 17,
2012 following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
At 6:58 p.m. Mayor McGraw requested a brief recess to sign the USDA paperwork.
The meeting was reconvened at 7:06 p.m.
   B.    Nancy McKenzie, Chair of the Appearance Committee thanked the board
for allocating $800 to the committee. Ms. McKenzie provided a brief summary of
the Adopt-A-Street program and requested that the town share in the cost of
implementing this program. The board consensus was that they supported the
concept of the program, but requested that the committee fine tune their plan
and present it at the August board meeting. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board
approved the placement of planters on McReynolds Street. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board agreed to approve the Appearance Committee request to hold a
chili cook off fundraiser following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier
and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.  Ms. McKenzie
discussed four applicants who are interested in joining the committee, Nezzie
Smith, Doris Fite, Lauren Kenfick and Renee Brooks. There are only two
vacancies on the board for voting members. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier the board
appointed Nezzie Smith and Doris Fite to the Appearance Committee as voting
members; Lauren Kenefick and Renee Brooks as non voting members and reappointed
Nancy McKenzie for another three year term. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.    David Puckett, resident of the Tyson Woods subdivision, stated the
issues the residents are having with their individual sewer pumps. He reported
that residents continually have to replace check valves and pumps because
undersize pipes were put in when the development was initially built. Mr.
Puckett reported that sewer backs up in his yard, as well as in the house. The
residents are asking for the town’s help to fix this problem. Heidi Oxendine,
also a resident of the Tyson Woods subdivision, indicated that she has the same
problems with her check valve and sewer backing up in her yard and inside the
house. Town Manager Carol Sparks stated that the state signed off on the sewer
plans; not the Town. Public Works Director Rocky Davis commented that the pipes
are not too small; it is a bad design that is causing the problems. The board
agreed to investigate alternative ways that the town might be able to help the
Tyson Woods community with this situation and will try to have a report at the
August meeting.
   D.    Lauren Kenefick presented a proposal for starting a Carthage Country
Market in the downtown area and requested that the Town sponsor the market by
letting the group use the McDonald Building parking lot, not the building, at
no cost. Ms. Kenefick clarified that she and the vendors would be responsible
for clean up and the proceeds would be used to cover insurance and
advertisement. The board agreed that the market was a good idea and directed
the Town Clerk to check with Southern Pines to see how they handle the Farmer’s
Market there. A suggestion was made for an alternate location as well as to
have the group establish themselves as a non-profit 501(c) corporation.
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
V.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks passed around a note that Police Chief Bart Davis received
complimenting the police department for the good job they did at the July 4 th
parade. Ms. Sparks reported that the Credit Union should be completed in six
months and Wal-Mart in ninety days. The board directed the Town Manager to
write Mr. Klug a letter requesting that he remove the benches in front of Mr.
B’s.
VI.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   The board made the motion for Appearance Committee appointments under
Public Appearance (B).
   B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing
the Clerk to Investigate for ANX-01-12, George H. & Phyllis L. Wilson Request
for Non-Contiguous Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency
for ANX-01-12, George H. & Phyllis L. Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the
Date of the Public Hearing for ANX-01-12, George H. & Phyllis L. Wilson Non-
Contiguous Annexation for Tuesday, August 21, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   E.   The board voted to adopt the Resolution Accepting Transfer Rights for
10/70 Land Area in the Little River (Intake No. 2) Watershed from Moore County
to the Town of Carthage following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   The board voted to adopt the Resolution Accepting Transfer Rights for
10/70 Land Area in the Nicks Creek Watershed from Moore County to the Town of
Carthage following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   The board voted to adopt the Resolution Accepting Transfer Rights for
10/70 Land Area in the Little River (Vass) Watershed from Moore County to the
Town of Carthage following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Danielle Orloff, owner of an Internet Café in Vass, spoke requesting
that the board consider capping the tax per machine when they adopt an
ordinance. Ms. Orloff showed the board pictures of her facility in Vass and
stated that she would like to open one in Carthage. John Basil, from Pinehurst,
requested that the board be fair to everyone and not let just one Internet Café
be allowed. Lauren Kenefick voiced concern about safety issues and these
businesses preying on the poor. After much discussion, the board agreed to
table this issue until the September meeting following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A copy of the Carthage Appearance Committee meeting minutes July 9, 2012 and
the Carthage Historical Committee meeting minutes July 10, 2012 are attached,
which are and do become a part of these minutes.
IX.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber stated that the flush valve that Public Works Director
Rocky Davis installed at his house has improved the quality of the water. He
thanked Public Works for being pro-active in flushing water lines in different
areas of town. The board discussed having Edie Puckett take a group picture of
the commissioners for the website and Commissioner Graham suggested that the
picture be taken before the next board meeting. Commissioner Dowdy reported
that at the last Triangle J meeting the group discussed providing incentives to
encourage businesses to come into town. Commissioner Motz-Frazier thanked the
staff for inviting the board members to Sergeant John Gibbons retirement
dinner. Mayor McGraw extended compliments to the Police and Fire Departments
for their assistance at the 4 th of July parade and thanked Ms. Phillips for
all her hard work on the budget.
X.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XI.   
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:52 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 21, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 21, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, August 21, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners
Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier and Catherine Graham. A quorum was
present. Commissioner Artie Barber was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Public Works Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Others present were Appearance Committee member Lauren Kenefick; Bill
Lester, Hobbs Upchurch Associates; concerned citizen Tommy McKenzie and John
Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.
II.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 17, 2012
   B.   Transfer of Funds A, B
   C.   Budget Amendment #1
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the Loan from Rural
Development, United States Department of Agriculture, to obtain funds for the
Sewer Interconnection Improvement project at 6:34 p.m. There was no one present
to speak concerning the USDA loan. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:
35 p.m. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board approved the loan from Rural Development,
United States Department of Agriculture, in order to obtain sufficient funds
for the Sewer Interconnection Improvements project. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on ANX-01-12 Request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation from George H. & Phyllis L. Wilson at 6:36 p.m. There was
no one present to speak concerning the annexation. Mayor McGraw closed the
Public Hearing at 6:37 p.m. The board adopted the Ordinance to Extend the
Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for George H. & Phyllis L. Wilson
following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that Chief Davis had received a $10,000 grant to be put
toward the new VIPER system. Ms. Sparks commented that Forest Ridge is growing
and last week she had an inquiry concerning the land behind the Forest Ridge
sub-division. Ms. Sparks informed the board that the broken benches had been
removed from the sidewalk in front of Mr. Klug’s building. Public Works
Director Rocky Davis remarked that the recently purchased truck replaced one
that we had gotten rid of four years ago.
VI.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing the
Clerk to Investigate for ANX-02-12, Emily T. & Paul H. Davis Jr. Request for
Non-Contiguous Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency
for ANX-02-12, Emily T. & Paul H. Davis Jr. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the Date of
the Public Hearing for ANX-02-12, Emily T. & Paul H. Davis Jr. Non-Contiguous
Annexation for Tuesday, September 18, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Lauren Kenefick reported that she had not talked to Fred’s about using
their parking lot for the Farmers Market. Ms. Kenefick clarified that she was
requesting to use the town parking lot next to the old Granny’s Mercantile
building (old Tyson and Jones building), not the area directly adjacent to the
McDonald Building. The proposed hours for the market would be on Saturdays from
8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and she would like to start in the spring. After some
discussion, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board agreed to allow Ms. Kenefick to set up a Farmers
Market in the parking lot adjacent to the old Tyson and Jones building, on
Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. An agreement will be signed by both
parties. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A copy of the Carthage Appearance Committee meeting minutes August 13, 2012 is
attached, which is and does become a part of these minutes.
IX.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley remarked that the Appearance Committee has been very
active. Commissioner Graham commented that it is a pleasure to see the benches
gone and she thanked the Appearance Committee. Commissioner Dowdy thanked
Public Works Director Rocky Davis for the work his department had done on
Needmore and he also thanked Police Chief Bart Davis for the police
department’s quick response to the incident over the weekend. Commissioner
Dowdy stated that he is excited to see the Wal-Mart going up. Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley agreed with all that had been said. Commissioner Motz-Frazier agreed
about the Wal-Mart and suggested that the board hold a meeting to discuss ways
to attract additional businesses to Carthage. The board agreed to hold a
workshop on this topic after the NCLM conference. Mayor McGraw thanked everyone
in town and applauded the attitude of the board and the staff.
X.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Tommy McKenzie commented that putting sidewalks in downtown didn’t necessarily
mean that they had to be cement. Mr. McKenzie stated that sidewalks would keep
people from having to walk on the grass. Bill Lester apologized for being late
and explained that even though the Town had had multiple meetings about the
USDA loan, we still needed to have a public hearing. Mr. Lester asked if anyone
had any questions about the loan; there were none. Lauren Kenefick inquired
about the black fencing near the Wal-Mart site. Public Works Director Rocky
Davis responded that the fence was required by DENHR since Wal-Mart is going to
have to run a pipe under Monroe Street.
XI.   CLOSED SESSION
   A.   The board moved into closed session at 7:02 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S.
143-318.11 (a) (7) to plan, conduct or hear reports concerning investigations
of alleged criminal misconduct following a motion made by Commissioner Graham
and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
returned to regular session at 7:45 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried. There was no action to be taken.
   B.   Upon returning to regular session the board discussed the fact that
Police Chief Davis was doing a good job handling a difficult situation.
XII.   
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 18, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 18, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, September 18, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Pat Motz-
Frazier, Artie Barber and Catherine Graham. A quorum was present. Mayor Pro-Tem
Jean Riley was absent.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Assistant Town Manager/
Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Public Works Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
   Also present were Emily Tobias, law partner of Town Attorney Doug Gill;
Kathleen Shelton-Yow, Attorney; Reid Greene, Internet Café business owner;
Appearance Committee member Annette McGraw; Mr. & Mrs. Womble, Rick Fleming,
concerned citizens Johnny Grimm, Edie Puckett, Paul Davis and John Chappell,
reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:48 p.m.
II.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 21, 2012
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting August 21, 2012
   C.   Budget Amendment #2
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
   A.   Mr. Allen Matthews did not show up for the Public Appearance
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the Request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation from Emily T. & Paul H. Davis, Jr. at 6:49 p.m. There was
no one present to speak concerning the non-contiguous annexation. Mayor McGraw
closed the Public Hearing at 6:50 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board adopted the
Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for Emily T. &
Paul H. Davis, Jr. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks informed the board that she and Commissioner Dowdy had attended
the Moore County Transportation Committee meeting this morning. North Carolina
Secretary of State Gene Conti discussed the county’s transportation system and
indicated that the bypass may be coming, but they don’t know when. The board
discussed the traffic at Carthage Elementary School, as well as the need to
secure the ball field gate and bathrooms at night. Commissioners Dowdy and
Barber commended Public Works for their quick response to the water problem
this morning. Commissioner Barber commended Maintenance Worker Jeff Vaughn for
his professionalism when Mr. Vaughn answered his call to the emergency line
early this morning. Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded
by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, Commissioner Graham was nominated as the elected
official to represent the Town on the Moore County Summit Water Task Force. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   After a brief discussion, the board nominated Commissioner Barber to
become a member of the Fireman’s Relief Fund, following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   B.   Mr. Wayne Womble explained to the board that he and his wife are
thinking about moving to Carthage. They are interested in Chuck Watson’s
property located at 108/110 McReynolds Street. Mr. & Mrs. Womble would like to
live in one of the apartments upstairs and rent the other, operate a classic
automobile (Corvette) museum/dealership on the first floor and build a small
garage/carriage house in the back to service his own vehicles. Mr. Womble
stated that this building had a history of being used as a car dealership and
he and his wife are interested in beautifying and revitalizing the town. Mr.
Womble and Rick Fleming, the realtor handling the property, had previously met
with Ms. Sparks and she had explained that the Ordinance would have to be
amended to allow the above uses in the Central Business District. The board
liked Mr. Womble’s proposal and suggested that all parties do their due
diligence to pursue this request and make it happen. Commissioner Barber stated
that the Planning Board should review the Womble’s proposal and make their
recommendation to the board. Mayor McGraw requested that the commissioners
forward to Ms. Sparks any suggestions they may have on conditions to be placed
in order to amend the Ordinance to allow these uses as Conditional Uses, prior
to the Planning Board meeting on October 4,   2012.
VII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   After some discussion, the board agreed not to approve the Ordinance
Amending the Town of Carthage Development Ordinance to Define and Regulate
Electronic Gaming Operations since it does not fit the criteria of business for
the Town of Carthage at this time, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. Three ayes and one nay (Commissioner
Motz-Frazier). Motion passed.
VIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None
IX.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber reported that electric cars were a major topic of
conversation at the last Triangle J meeting. Commissioner Graham thanked Public
Works for getting the water back on so quickly the other day. Commissioner
Dowdy commented that he wanted to give the Police Department a vote of
confidence and remarked that Police Chief Davis is doing an outstanding job.
Commissioner Motz-Frazier agreed that all departments are doing an excellent
job. Mayor McGraw agreed that all departments, including the Town Manager, are
doing an excellent job.
X.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XI.   CLOSED SESSION
   A.   The board moved into closed session at 8:00 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S.
143-318.11 (a) (7) to plan, conduct or hear reports concerning investigations
of alleged criminal misconduct following a motion made by Commissioner Graham
and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
returned to regular session at 8:03 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion
carried. There was no action to be taken.
   B.   Upon returning to regular session Finance Officer Linda Phillips
announced her retirement and the board discussed her replacement.
XII.   
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 16, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 16, 2012
6:30 P.M.
   The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, October 16, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
   Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier, Artie Barber and
Catherine Graham. A full board.
   Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, and
Police Chief Bart Davis.
   Also present were Jerry Matthews, new owner of Moore Coffee Company; Edie
Puckett, owner of Time Catcher Photography, and her husband David; Lauren
Kenefick, Appearance Committee member and Paul Davis, Historical Committee
member.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
II.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, with the addition of Commissioner Artie
Barber’s name to the attendees of the Closed Session minutes, following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 18, 2012
   B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting September 18,
2012
   C.   Budget Amendment #3
   D.   Records Retention and Disposition Schedule
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
V.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks informed the board that she is still waiting for one of the IT
reports. Ms. Sparks updated the board on the status of the broken pumps and
reported that we also had a water pipe blow out on Needmore this morning which
took almost all day to fix. After it was fixed and running again, there was
another blow out down the line. There were also two leaks in the raw water line
on Hwy 22. Ms. Sparks informed the board that the dumpster at Hinesely’s would
be gone by Friday. Commissioner Barber thanked Ms. Sparks for taking care of
this issue.
VI.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   After a brief discussion, the board decided to leave the November
meeting date as scheduled for Tuesday, November 20, 2012.
VII.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   Ms. Sparks summarized the Planning Board meeting and reported that the
Planning Board recommended approving the amendments to the Development
Ordinance with strict conditions. Ms. Sparks stated that Mr. Womble thought he
would have difficulty keeping his dealers license if strict conditions were
placed on what type of vehicle he could sell. The board agreed that they wanted
to encourage businesses to come to Carthage, but they had to be careful because
in the past the board had taken a stand against selling cars in the Central
Business District (CBD). The board members discussed the idea of people being
able to live in the CBD and agreed it was a good idea, if it was done the right
way. The board asked Ms. Sparks to check with other towns about their
requirements for residents living above shops in the CBD and to talk with Mr.
Womble about the possibility of locating his repair shop in another zoning
district where this type of business was allowed. Mayor McGraw requested that
the board bring their recommendations for conditions to be placed on the
Ordinance amendments to the next meeting.
VIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Lauren Kenefick described Ellen Patrick’s drawings for the new mural and stated
that the Appearance Committee had approved the drawings. Paul Davis stated that
the museum needs more publicity because many citizens he talks to are not even
aware that there is a museum. Discussion was held on some possibilities and the
mayor requested that the Historical Committee come up with some ideas.
IX.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber reported that he attended his first Fireman’s Relief Fund
board meeting and he requested that J.D. Monroe be put on the agenda for the
next meeting to discuss the life insurance policy for the former firefighters
who had been left off the roster years ago. He also commended the Police
Department for showing up at his house after his wife accidentally dialed 911
while teaching their son proper emergency procedures. Commissioner Dowdy
inquired about the cost for purchasing an electronic sign to place out in front
of town hall. Ms. Sparks stated that the estimates ranged from $14,000 to
$17,000 plus the cost of the electrical piece. Commissioner Motz-Frazier
thanked the citizens for attending the meeting. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated that
there had been some good discussion tonight.
X.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Mr. Paul Davis reported that he had attended a meeting in Raleigh and the
Employee Credit Union is scheduled to open at the beginning of the year. Mr.
Puckett remarked that he thought Mr. Womble wanted to start his business just
to show off his cars; he thought that the offsite garage was a good idea. Ms.
Puckett stated that some of the local buildings in the CBD were falling apart
and she suggested getting grants to fix them up. Ms. Sparks reported that most
grants are 50/50 with the property owner required to put up their portion and
use that money first. Mr. Matthews invited everyone to visit his shop. Ms.
Kenefick informed the board that she planned to start the Farmers Market in the
spring.
XI.   
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
XII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:31 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 20, 2012
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 20, 2012
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, November 20, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier, Artie Barber and
Catherine Graham. A full board.
Others present were Assistant Town Manager/Finance Officer Linda Phillips, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Public Works Director Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner.
Also present were Starla Hughes, John Scarpola and Connie Laster from Sharrard
McGee & Co., P.A.; Rick Fleming; Wayne & Phyllis Womble; Chad Chriscoe,
Heartland Auction Company; Jeremy Matthews, Moore Coffee Company; Edie Puckett,
Time Catcher Photography; Jesse Wimberly, Sandhills Area Land Trust; Nancy
McKenzie, Lauren Kenefick and Annette McGraw, Appearance Committee members;
Paul Davis, Historical Committee member and concerned citizens Ward, Bert and
Ellen Patrick, George Wilson and Sammy Riddle.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 16, 2012
B.   Budget Amendment #4, #5
C.   Transfer of Funds C
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Ms. Starla Hughes gave a presentation on the FY 2011/2012 audit. Ms.
Hughes reviewed the highlights of the audit. Mayor McGraw thanked Ms. Hughes
for her presentation.
B.   Mr. Jesse Wimberly, Sandhills Area Land Trust (SALT), presented an
invitation to attend a Road to Economic Revival meeting to inform citizens
about available agriculture and tourism opportunities along the scenic byways.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Assistant Town
Manager Linda Phillips invited the board to the Christmas lunch and informed
them about the Christmas float and the Historical Committee Christmas Tour of
Homes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board cancelled the December regular scheduled
meeting.
B.   Carol Kershaw was not present at the meeting.
C.   Mr. Chad Chriscoe, Heartland Auction Company, reported that he had been
talking to Mr. Sammy Riddle about holding auctions at 805 Monroe Street, the
old Movie Gallery building. Mr. Chriscoe requested permission to hold these
auctions on a 90 day trial basis before he enters into a long term contract on
the building. Mr. Chriscoe informed the board that he planned to hold auctions
two times a month on Saturday from 4:00-10:00 p.m. He stated that he expected
approximately 150-200 people per auction. After some discussion, following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the
board approved allowing Mr. Chriscoe to hold auctions at 805 Monroe Street on a
90 day trial basis starting in January 2013 with the following conditions:
1. A licensed auctioneer will act as moderator
2. Participants will bid on various goods; not to include livestock
3. Auctions will end by 11 p.m.
4. Any item on display outside will be removed the day of the auction
      All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Nancy McKenzie provided a handout of Appearance Committee goals and a
budget, a copy which is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by
reference. Ms. McKenzie reported that the consensus of the committee was that
they wanted to purchase larger pots and plant flowers in them. Ms McKenzie
showed a pot similar to the ones that they wanted to purchase. Ms. McKenzie
informed the board that Tommy Phillips from the Century Committee had called
her and indicated that that committee is interested in matching funds with the
town to have a mural painted. Assistant Town Manager Linda Phillips suggested
that the board hold a work session with both committees to discuss this topic.
After some discussion, the board approved an amendment to the Carthage Code of
Ordinances requiring that the Town Board approve exterior murals in all zoning
districts, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Graham. Four ayes and one nay (Commissioner Barber). Motion
passed. Commissioner Motz-Frazier praised Ellen Patrick’s work as an artist and
thanked her for her interest in the mural project. After a brief discussion,
the board approved appointing Jeremy Matthews to the Appearance Committee
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Wayne Womble handed out a building project sheet, which is attached to
these minutes and incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Womble reported that he
and Rick Fleming had met with the building inspector and fire marshal and there
may be obstacles with upgrading the building. After much discussion, following
a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board did not approve an
amendment to the Development Ordinance to allow apartments as a Conditional Use
in the Central Business District (CDB) with the following conditions:
1.   Maximum two single family units
2.   Units to meet all necessary NC building code standards
3.   Minimum size 1,400 square feet per unit
4.   Units to have full kitchens and baths
Two ayes and three nays (Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, Commissioner Dowdy and
Commissioner Barber). Motion denied.
The board approved not allowing auto dealerships as a Conditional Use in the
CBD following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy. Three ayes and two nays (Commissioner Motz-Frazier and Commissioner
Graham). Motion carried.
The board approved not allowing garages as a Conditional Use in the CBD
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Paul Davis reported that the Historical Committee is sponsoring their annual
Christmas Tour of Homes on Sunday, December 2, 2012. Tickets are $10.00 and are
available at various locations.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Barber reported that at the last Triangle J meeting they discussed
fire training needs and discount DOT drug testing. Commissioner Dowdy stated
that he will try and keep up with his emails and that all commissioners need to
be up to date on town business. Commissioner Motz-Frazier reported that the
article about Carthage will be in the March 2013 issue of Our State Magazine
and the April issue will have an article about the Sandhills. Mayor McGraw
stated that he is excited about the magazine article and he thanked
Commissioner Motz-Frazier for her involvement in that project.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 8:44 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition
of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer following a
motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Graham.
All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 9:04 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Upon returning to open session, the board approved paying two death
benefit claims, Frankie Yow and George Denning, who were qualified to receive
this benefit from the N.C. State Fireman’s Association Fund, in the amount of
$2,000.00 plus 1% interest following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, the board agreed to deposit the $28,488.00 received from the NC
League of Municipalities Employee Benefits Policy into a reserve account to be
held for further death benefit payments to the firemen left off of the N.C.
State Fireman’s Association Fund roster. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, the board agreed to annually deposit $2.000.00, as a budgeted
line item, to this reserve account until the sum of $15,552.00 is reached. All
ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 9:08 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
2013 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 15, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 15, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, January 15, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy,
Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier, Artie Barber and Catherine Graham. A quorum was present.
Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Doug Gill, Town Attorney; Paul Davis, Historical Committee
member; concerned citizens Jeremy Matthews, Crimson Sanders, Sam McKenzie and
John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 20, 2012
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting November 20, 2012
C.   Budget Amendment #6
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Mr. Sam McKenzie presented a request to amend the Town of Carthage
Development Ordinance Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses to allow
automobile repair shops as permitted or conditional uses in R-10 zoned areas.
Town Manager Carol Sparks commented that that property can not be rezoned since
it is surrounded by other properties zoned R-10 and RA-40. After some
discussion, the board consensus was that they would like to have Mr. McKenzie’s
business in Carthage but they had previously turned down other similar requests
and in order to treat all citizens fairly, they were going to abide by the
previous decisions. The board did suggest that Mr. McKenzie meet with the Town
Manager to discuss other possible locations that were zoned for this use. Mr.
Crimson Sanders questioned whether the junk yard on Dowd Street was permitted.
Ms. Sparks reported that it was not a permitted use and she had been in contact
with the owner who had said that he would stop. Ms. Sparks will follow up on
this issue.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Ms. Sparks asked
the board if any of them would be attending the State to State lunch.
Commissioner Barber wanted to know if we had heard anything yet on the audit
firm RFP’s that were sent out. Ms. Sparks reported not yet. Commissioner Dowdy
commented on the ruling and shutting down of internet cafes.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing
the Clerk to Investigate for ANX-01-13, Joshua L. & Lindsay D. Aldridge Request
for Non-Contiguous Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to accept the Certificate of
Sufficiency for ANX-01-13, Joshua L. & Lindsay D. Aldridge. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the
Date of the Public Hearing for ANX-01-13, Joshua L. & Lindsay D. Aldridge Non-
Contiguous Annexation for Tuesday, February 19, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
D.   The board agreed to set February 19, 2013 as the date for the Public
Hearing to amend the Carthage Development Ordinance to add Museums or Art
Galleries as a permitted use in the Airport District following a motion made by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E.   After some discussion and Commissioner Barber’s request that an ad be
placed in The Pilot, as well as placing the vehicles on GOVDEALS.com, the board
approved the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and Authorizing Sale
following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board adopted the Resolution to Support the 2013-2015
Funding for Clean Water Management Trust Fund. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.   After a brief discussion, the board adopted the Resolution Strongly
Opposing Legislation that Provides for the Forced Taking of Municipal Water
System following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board reappointed Commissioner Barber and
Commissioner Dowdy as the delegate and alternate delegate, respectively, to the
Triangle J Council of Governments. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.   Commissioner Graham was designated as the voting delegate for the NCLM
Advocacy Goals Conference and Mayor McGraw as the alternate, if he can attend.
J.   The board decided to hold their first Budget Retreat on Tuesday, February
19, 2013 beginning at 8:30 a.m.
K.   The board discussed amending the Carthage Development Ordinance to allow
auctions in the Central Business District, B-2, Thoroughfare Business District
and Highway Commercial District. The board decided not to take any action at
this time.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Paul Davis reported that the Historical Committee now has a schedule for the
year indicating what Sundays the members will work at the museum. Mayor McGraw
announced that Major Killian, a long time member of the Historical Committee
and the Methodist Church, had passed away yesterday. Commissioner Barber
requested that Public Works Director Rocky Davis check the handrail of the
handicap ramp at the museum for splinters and replace the spindle on the front
porch that doesn’t match the others.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Motz-Frazier stated that she went on the Christmas Tour of Homes
and it was very nice. She also reported on the SALT meeting she attended.
Commissioner Dowdy commended all of the departments for their hard work and
welcomed Finance Officer Kesha Matthews. He also remarked that the light on the
corner of the McDonald Building is blinding when you come around the corner and
requested that Public Works adjust it. Commissioner Graham complimented Public
Works Director Rocky Davis for taking the Christmas decorations down so
promptly. Commissioner Barber questioned the spotlight for the flag at the
museum and the fact that there are two meters at that location. He also asked
if the County was going to plant shrubs behind the new justice center, they
are, and commended everyone who worked on the Christmas parade. Town Manager
Carol Sparks congratulated Police Chief Bart Davis on the birth of his son.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
A.   John Chappell clarified that the five vehicles declared surplus were the
ones that were on GOVDEALS.com.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 7:43 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (3) to consult with our attorney to preserve the attorney-client
privilege to discuss possible litigation involving VLR, following a motion made
by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes.
Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:17 p.m. following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board moved into closed session at 8:20 p.m. pursuant
to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (3) to consult with our attorney to preserve the
attorney-client privilege to discuss a personnel issue. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:45 p.m. following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried. No action was taken.
C.   Upon returning to open session, the board discussed employee drug testing
and the status of the Police Department K-9. The board requested that
information concerning the cost of drug testing and information concerning the
dog be available at the retreat.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:56 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 19, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 19, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, February 19, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier, Artie Barber and
Catherine Graham. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis, Lieutenant Robbie Mabe, Police
Officers Jeff Myrick, Heath McKenzie, Robert Clark, Kin Shaw, Wes Coleman,
Jacob Lesley, Josh Gibson, Steve Martin and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Katie Hartzog, Attorney appointed by the North Carolina
League of Municipalities (NCLM); Jerry Radman and Joe Faulkner, CE Group in
Raleigh; Paul Davis, Historical Committee member; Lauren Kenefick and Jeremy
Matthews Appearance Committee members; concerned citizens Edie Puckett, Norman
McQueen, Roland Gilliam, Lenah Davis and John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot
newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance. The board
approved adding to the Agenda under Public Appearance, a presentation by CE
Group of Raleigh of subdivision plans for Forest Ridge, following a motion made
by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: T
he board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 15, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting January 15, 2013
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting January 15, 2013
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Police Chief Bart Davis introduced seven new police officers.
B.   Mr. Jerry Radman and Mr. Joe Faulkner from CE Group in Raleigh presented
preliminary subdivision plans for the remaining 125.9 acres at Forest Ridge on
Union Church Road. They are planning 136 lots to be built in two phases. All of
the homes will be on town water. Mr. Faulkner stated that they plan to start in
early summer and there will be open space along the creek. Town Manager Carol
Sparks reported that the plans are in compliance with the Town’s zoning
ordinance. The consensus of the board was that they have a great product and
should proceed with the project.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the request from Roland Gilliam
that the Development Ordinance be amended to add Museums or Art Galleries as a
permitted use in the Airport District at 6:48 p.m. Mr. Gilliam gave the board
an overview of the planned air museum and banquet facility. Mr. John Chappell
asked what the hours of operation would be for the museum and Mr. Gilliam
stated that he hoped it would be open seven days a week. Ms. Edie Puckett
inquired as to whether there would be a charge to go into the museum. Mr.
Gilliam stated that the banquet facility would be available on a rental basis
and there would probably be a small admission charge to the museum. Mayor
McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:59 p.m. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board approved the
request that the Development Ordinance be amended to add Museums or Art
Galleries as a permitted use in the Airport District. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on ANX-01-13 Request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation from Joshua L. & Lindsay D. Aldridge at 7:00 p.m. There
was no one present to speak concerning the annexation. Ms. Sparks stated that
we had received one phone call with a question concerning the annexation. Mayor
McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 7:02 p.m. The board adopted the Ordinance
to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for Joshua L. & Lindsay
D. Aldridge following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded
by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Ms. Sparks
discussed the two IT contracts and explained why we decided to go with
Davenport-Lawrence. Chief Davis reported that he was going to purchase new
updated cameras for the police vehicles with the money received from the sale
of the Crown Victorias. He also stated that the police department has received
the VIPER mobile units but the county will not be starting the new system until
they move into their new building. Ms. Sparks reported that Public Works
Director Rocky Davis is planning to purchase a new mower deck and a swedge
machine (machine that repairs high powered jetter hoses) with the money he
received from selling his surplus items. Ms. Sparks advised the board that when
a department sells surplus items they use the proceeds to purchase items not in
their budget.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, the board voted to set March 19, 2013 as the date of the Public
Hearing to hear the request that Live Auctions be allowed as a Conditional Use
at 101 McReynolds Street and/or 28 Courthouse Square. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Chief Davis explained that the department used to be aggressive with
marking cars parked downtown, but it uses a lot of manpower and the department
/Town wants to be a good neighbor. The Chief reported that enforcement is now
complaint driven and complaints are taken seriously. The board directed the
Chief to continue working with the Assistant County Manager and Probation, as
well as explore adding additional signage, to alleviate this problem.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
A.   The board agreed to reschedule their first Budget Retreat to Monday, March
18, 2013 beginning at 4:00 p.m., following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-
Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Lauren Kenefick reported that the Appearance Committee will be voting on new
officers at their next meeting and that they are still discussing flower pots
and murals. Commissioner Dowdy reminded Ms. Kenefick that the Appearance
Committee needs to present their plans to the board for approval. Paul Davis
reported that the Historical Committee is still looking for some new members
and has been discussing ways to raise money at the Buggy Festival.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Barber reported that at the last Triangle J meeting some of the
larger cities were discussing passing on equipment, and possibly the services
of their planners and engineers, to the smaller towns. Commissioner Graham
congratulated Chief Davis on having a full department. Commissioner Motz-
Frazier told the board about the Buggy Festival fundraiser, the Tyson
descendents that are going to be a part of the Buggy Festival and praised Chief
Davis on the professionalism of his officers. She also questioned the ordinance
the town has against manufacturing buggies in town. Ms. Sparks explained that
buggy manufacturing is not listed as a permitted use, thus it is considered not
permitted. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated that the Chief makes us proud. Mayor
McGraw requested that the Public Comment section be moved to the beginning of
the board meeting in the future and recognized Black History Month and the
important history we have in the museum.
XII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
A.   Edie Puckett and Norman McQueen spoke concerning the sewer problem in
Tyson Woods. Mr. McQueen stated that his check valve failed and all of the
sewer from up the hill burned out his pump. He requested that the Town do the
right thing and take the burden off of the residents. Ms. Sparks responded that
Public Works Director Rocky Davis was working on a solution and it looked as if
it might cost approximately $110,000.00. Ms. Sparks told Ms. Puckett and Mr.
McQueen that Public Works would put some lime down in their yards to help get
rid of the sewage smell.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 7:57 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (3) to consult with our attorney to preserve the attorney-client
privilege to discuss possible litigation with a former employee, following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:22 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
B.   Upon returning to open session, the board discussed ways that all members
could operate and work together and respect the integrity of the entire board
and the Town Manager. The board requested to review the salary ranges before
the retreat. Commissioner Dowdy requested that the board be notified of any
surplus equipment before it is sold.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 9:10 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 18, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MARCH 18, 2013
4:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Monday, March 18, 2013 at 4:00 p.m. in the Fire Department located
at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Frazier and Catherine Graham. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2013/2014
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 4:01 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   FINANCE DEPARTMENT FY 2013-2014 BUDGET PROCESS:
The board reviewed the following items: FY 2013-2014 budget process, budget/
fund balance summary, the outstanding debt as of June 2013 and the current fee
and rate schedule. In reviewing the budget/fund balance summary there was
discussion on the money budgeted for the upkeep of the cemetery and additional
taxes that the Town will be receiving from the houses being built in Forest
Ridge. Concern was expressed at how low the interest income has fallen. Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews explained the proposed sewer rate increase which is
necessary due to the sewer improvement project as well as the increase in the
rate the Town pays the County. Ms. Matthews passed out an additional worksheet
on the increase amount. A copy of this worksheet is attached to these minutes
and incorporated herein by reference. There will be no additional changes to
the Fee and Rate Schedule.
IV.   POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Police Chief Bart Davis presented to the board the proposed Police Department
budget for FY 2013-2014. Chief Davis informed the board that his proposed
budget is identical to last year’s except for moving money from one line item
to another. The board discussed contracted services/IT services and requested
that each department have a separate line item for IT services. Chief Davis did
request additional funds in order to add a Detective to the department. Since
he now has two officers per shift, he lost the Detective position he had
previously had. There was a discussion on the police department salaries and
the board approved the Chief’s request for an additional employee.
V.   FIRE DEPARTMENT:
Fire Chief Brian Tyner presented to the board the proposed Fire Department
budget for FY 2013-2014. Chief Tyner explained that he is requesting increases
to the department line items for building maintenance, vehicle repairs,
communications and additional necessary capital outlay purchases. There was
discussion on the use of the ambulance, charging for ambulance service and the
number of department volunteers. Chief Tyner reported that the department will
be receiving a grant to be used to hire two full time fire fighters. After some
discussion, the board approved the fire department budget requests. Fire
fighter Bill Bass informed the board that the centennial celebration is being
moved from the Friday night before Buggy Festival to a date in June. He also
reported that the parade will be held in conjunction with the 4th of July
celebration. Mr. Bass requested financial help from the Town in order to help
sponsor a sit down dinner for dignitaries in October. After a brief discussion,
the Commissioners agreed to include money in the budget in case the department
is not able to raise enough for this event.
The mayor requested a five minute recess.
VI.   PUBLIC WORKS:
Town Clerk Karen O’Hara passed out additional information on the Public Works
proposed budget. A copy of this information is attached to these minutes and
incorporated herein by reference. Director of Public Works Rocky Davis
presented to the board the proposed Public Works budget for FY 2013-2014. Mr.
Davis stated that it is basically the same budget as years before. He reported
that he needs to increase certain line items in order to cover repairs to the
pumps, the Town Hall roof and the heat pump at the museum. After some
discussion, the board approved these increases. Mr. Davis presented the
estimate that he had received to fix the sewer pump situation in Tyson Woods.
After much discussion, the board approved funding the sewer pump project with
LKC as well as the paving of Saunders Street by Riley Paving. The board
requested that the Town Manager send letters to the affected homeowners in
Tyson Woods.
VII.   ADMINISTRATION:
Ms. Matthews passed out a Finance Officer Travel and Training Budget Increase
sheet which is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
The board approved these expenses and requested that Ms. Matthews also
investigate any scholarships that might be available. A discussion was held
concerning adding additional money to the Commissioners travel/training line
item. The Town Manager and Finance Officer will check on the conference costs
in order to calculate an amount.
VIII.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:18 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, ’’CMC’ Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 19, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 19, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, March 19, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy,
Jr., Pat Motz-Frazier, and Artie Barber. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley and
Commissioner Catherine Graham were absent.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews and Public Works Director Rocky Davis.
Also present were Mr. & Mrs. Hinesley and their daughter; Ward Patrick and his
brother; Paul Davis and John McDonald, Historical Committee members; Nancy
McKenzie, Lauren Kenefick, Bonnie Brown, and Hilda Morris, Appearance Committee
members; concerned citizens Edie Puckett, Jeremy Matthews, Roland Gilliam and
John Chappell, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:  
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 19, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting February 19, 2013
C.   Budget Amendment #7
D.   Transfer of Funds D
The board approved adding to the Agenda approval of a Resolution Supporting the
Request to Construct Needed Roadway Improvements on N.C. Hwy 22, following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.  A copy of this resolution is attached to these minutes
and incorporated herein by reference.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, the board approved the Resolution Supporting the Request to Construct
Needed Roadway Improvements on N.C. Hwy 22. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Laqueena Balsar presented a plan to expand her home daycare business to
the board. Ms. Balsar proposed building a daycare center on her property at 233
Tyson Lane. The property is approximately two acres and she has already talked
to the state and the county about the requirements for the building. Ms. Balsar
showed the Commissioners a petition that her neighbors had signed showing
approval and support for the project, a copy which is attached to these minutes
and incorporated herein by reference. The consensus of the board was that Ms.
Balsar should move ahead with her plan. Following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to set April
16, 2013 as the date of the Public Hearing to hear the request that a Child Day
Care Center be allowed as a Conditional Use at 330 Tyson Lane. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the request from Jerry Hinesley
for a Conditional Use Permit to hold live auctions at 28 Courthouse Square at
6:43 p.m. Mr. Hinesley gave a brief description of his request. There was no
one else present to speak on this issue. After much discussion, following a
motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Barber,
the board approved a Conditional Use Permit be issued to hold Live Auctions at
28 Courthouse Square, not 101 McReynolds Street, with the following conditions:
1.   An auctioneer will act as moderator
2.   Participants will bid on various goods, not to include livestock
3.   Auctions will be held only on Friday and Saturday and there will be no
further sales after 11:30 p.m.
4.   Any item sold and not removed on the day of the sale will be stored inside
5.   No items to be auctioned will be displayed outside
All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:54 p.m.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Ms. Sparks
informed the board that she and Commissioner Dowdy had attended a good workshop
held by the Moore County Transportation Committee last week. Ms. Sparks invited
all of the Commissioners to the Buggy Festival fundraiser being held on Friday.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing the Clerk to
Investigate for ANX-02-13, William Douglas & Melissa Garner McKenzie Request
for Non-Contiguous Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency
for ANX-02-13, William Douglas & Melissa Garner McKenzie. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the
Date of the Public Hearing for ANX-02-13, William Douglas & Melissa Garner
McKenzie Non-Contiguous Annexation for Tuesday, April 16, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. All
ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Paul Davis requested, on behalf of the Historical Committee, that they
appoint Antoniette Kelly to the committee with a term to expire in 2014. The
board appointed Antoniette Kelly to the Historical Committee for a term to
expire in 2014, following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing the Clerk
to Investigate for ANX-03-13, W. Ward, Arnold C. and Alan D. Ward Request for
Non-Contiguous Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency
for ANX-03-13, W. Ward, Arnold C. and Alan D. Ward. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the
Date of the Public Hearing for ANX-03-13, W. Ward, Arnold C. and Alan D. Ward
Non-Contiguous Annexation for Tuesday, April 16, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
A.   After some discussion on changing the number of members in the bylaws, the
board agreed to table making a decision on the Appearance Committee by-laws,
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Motz-Frazier informed the
board that Jeremy Matthews was resigning from the Appearance Committee because
he will be moving out of Carthage. Commissioner Motz-Frazier nominated Edie
Puckett to replace Mr. Matthews. Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-
Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved appointing Edie
Puckett to fill the remainder of Mr. Matthews term which was the remainder of
Annette McGraw’s term which expires in June 2013. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Paul Davis and John McDonald remarked that they were pleased to have Ms. Kelly
appointed to the Historical Committee and reported that Ms. Cates had to resign
from the committee due to schedule conflicts. Mr. Davis gave details about the
theatre chairs and Mr. McDonald informed the board that the road signs had been
ordered and stated that the committee appreciated all of Rocky’s work at the
museum. Nancy McKenzie reported on the status of the planters and distributed
an Appearance Committee budget, a copy which is attached to these minutes and
incorporated herein by reference. The consensus of the board was that the
committee should go ahead and purchase the pots following the town’s purchasing
procedures. Ms. McKenzie informed the board that the committee was going to
start focusing on additional projects, such as the Adopt-A-Street program,
community survey and placing mulch around the trees uptown. It was suggested
that the committee check with Keep Moore County Beautiful to see if they have
any funds available to help with the Adopt-A-Street program.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Dowdy thanked Administration for a successful budget retreat,
commended the Commissioners on working together and apologized to the
Appearance Committee if he came on too strong at the last meeting. Commissioner
Barber stated that maybe the inmates could help clean up the streets before the
Buggy Festival. Commissioner Motz-Frazier agreed with Commissioner Dowdy,
congratulated Public Works Director Rocky Davis on the birth of his grandson
and invited everyone to the Buggy Festival fundraiser. Mayor McGraw commended
the town board for their support in getting things done.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:40 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 16, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 16, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, April 16, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, and Artie Barber. A
quorum. Commissioner Motz-Frazier was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Town Attorney Doug Gill, Laqueena & Phillip Balsar, Alan
Patrick, Steve & Donna Bastarache, Robbie Baker, Jeremy Matthews, Historical
Committee members Carol Steed and Paul Davis; Appearance Committee members
Nancy McKenzie, Renee Brooks, Edie Puckett and Hilda Morris.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Graham led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:  
None
The board approved adding the Resolution to Maintain and Support the Parks and
Recreation Trust Fund (PARTF) to the agenda, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.  A copy of this resolution is attached to these minutes and
incorporated herein by reference.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, the board approved the Resolution to Maintain and Support the Parks and
Recreation Trust Fund (PARTF). All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved adding the request for a Temporary Permit for residing in an
RV to the agenda, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.  A copy of this request is
attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
After a brief discussion, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved issuing William Coles a six
month temporary permit to reside in a RV at 213 Poplar Street while his house
is being repaired. All ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting March 18, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 18, 2013
C.   Budget Amendment #8
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on ANX-02-13 Request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation from William Douglas and Melissa Garner McKenzie at 6:40
p.m. There was no one present to speak concerning the annexation. Mayor McGraw
closed the Public Hearing at 6:41 p.m. The board adopted the Ordinance to
Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for William Douglas and
Melissa Garner McKenzie following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on ANX-03-13 Request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation from W. Ward, Arnold C. and Alan D. Patrick at 6:41 p.m.
Mr. Patrick stated that they are planning on building seven houses which range
from 1,500 to 3,000 square feet. Town Manager Carol Sparks informed the board
that the Patrick’s would have to submit a plot plan for approval before they
could begin building. There was no one else present to speak concerning the
annexation. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at
’’’’’Hour’18’’’Minute’446:44 p.m.’ After a brief discussion, the board adopted
the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for W.
Ward, Arnold C. and Alan D. Patrick following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the request from Laqueena Balsar
for a Conditional Use Permit to allow a Day Care Center to be located at 330
Tyson Lane at 6:44 p.m. Ms. Balsar stated that she did not have anything else
to add to what she had presented at the last meeting except that she would
follow all state and county regulations. There was no one else present to speak
on this issue. Mayor McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:46 p.m. Following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the
board approved a Conditional Use Permit be issued to allow a Day Care Center to
be located at 330 Tyson Lane with the requirement that it remain in compliance
with all regulations the town has concerning day care centers at all times. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Ms. Sparks
informed the board that the Town’s health insurance rate would be increasing
19% and our Worker’s Comp rate would be decreasing in the coming fiscal year.
Ms. Sparks reported that Phase I of Forest Ridge has approximately 23-24 new
homes and Phase II would have about 136. Ms. Sparks stated that Public Works
was changing out the motor at the Cockman lift station and hopefully then it
would be ready to go. The area in Tyson Woods has been surveyed and LKC is
working on the permitting. One of the residents has requested a meeting with
Public Works Director Rocky Davis and the engineer. Ms. Sparks reported that
two of the audit proposals we received were a bit less than Martin Starnes and
another one was more. Martin Starnes had very good references. Ms. Sparks asked
the Commissioners to let her know if they would like to attend the Citizen of
the Year banquet. Ms. Sparks stated that contracts over $30,000 needed to be
advertised and if a contractor was interested in doing business with the Town,
they should talk to the Public Works Director.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Urging the North
Carolina General Assembly to Amend Senate Bills 363 and 394 to Preserve
Balanced Municipal Revenues. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   After a brief discussion, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board voted not to approve the request
for a reduced rental rate of the Community Building. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Carol Steed and Paul Davis requested, on behalf of the Historical
Committee, that the Board appoint Bert Patrick to the committee. Following a
brief discussion, the board appointed Bert Patrick to the Historical Committee
for a term to expire in 2014, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Ms. Sparks stated that this change had previously been approved by the
board.
E.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board set May 21, 2013 as the date for the Public
Hearing to consider amending the Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses to
allow Recording Studio as a Permitted Use in the Central Business District. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
A.   After some discussion on the proposed amended by-laws and a request that
the committee review them for some clarification, the board agreed to table
making a decision on the Appearance Committee by-laws, following a motion made
by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
B.   The board agreed to schedule the Budget Workshop for May 22, 2013 at 8:30
a.m. 
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Nancy McKenzie reported that the Appearance Committee had purchased fourteen
planters and twelve have already been placed around town. The Committee thanked
Public Works Director Rocky Davis and Town Manager Carol Sparks for their
assistance. Ms. McKenzie commented that County Manager Wayne Vest had given his
approval to place two of the planters in front of the new courthouse. After
some discussion, the consensus of the board was to place two of the pots in
front of the courthouse, then write a letter to the county requesting a
contribution to pay for the planters, followed by a personal request from the
Appearance Committee. Carol Steed asked if the Town could till around the Tyson
Kitchen so that the Garden Club could plant “old time plants”. Commissioner
Graham volunteered that her husband had a tiller and she would talk to him
about doing it. After a brief discussion concerning the new Carthage Museum
signs, the Board instructed the Town Manager to check with DOT about placing
one of the signs on the same post as the Carthage Elementary School sign.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Barber asked about fixing Saunders Street and about the culvert
around the Kangaroo. He also questioned the cones around the Fire Training
Center and personally thanked the Fire/Rescue and Police Departments for their
help and quick response when his mother-in-law had her accident. Commissioner
Graham thanked the Appearance Committee for the planters and working together.
Commissioner Dowdy thanked all departments and Committees. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley
thanked all of the committee members for attending the meeting. Mayor McGraw
thanked the Public Works Director and his staff for always being around to help
and reminded everyone about the 25th annual Buggy Festival on May 11th and the
100 year celebration of the Fire Department in June.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 7:56 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) 63) to consider the qualifications, competence, performance,
condition of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer or
employee; or to hear or investigate a complaint, charge or grievance by or
against an individual public officer or employee, following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes.
Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:17 p.m. following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:18 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 21, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 21, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, May 21, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier and
Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Steve & Donna Bastarache, Judi Kelly, Billie Mackey, George
Wilson, Melissa Johnson, Historical Committee member Paul Davis, Century
Committee members Mark Fry, Neil Wolfe, Archie Kelly and Roland Gilliam;
Appearance Committee members Nancy McKenzie and Renee Brooks.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:  
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting April 16, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 16, 2013
C.   Budget Amendment #9, #10
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Mark Fry stated that he was addressing the Board on behalf of the Century
Committee since Chairman Tommy Phillips was out of town. Mr. Fry described the
history of the Century Committee and stated that the committee would like
Carthage to become a mural town, similar to Exeter, California. Mr. Fry
recognized that a lot has changed in Carthage over the years and there are a
lot of walls in town that can be used to document this history. Mr. Fry
informed the Board that Attorney Steve Lapping is working on the paperwork to
form a 501(c) non-profit as well as by laws that will address all facets of the
project. Mr. Fry stressed that the committee would like to move forward quickly
on this project and they have already pledged $10,000 towards the first mural
and $2,000-$3,000 needed to form the 501(c). Mr. Fry asked the Town to pledge
$10,000 to go towards the first mural. Mayor McGraw thanked Mr. Fry and stated
that the Board would talk about it, do some research and hopefully have an
answer by their next meeting.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing, on the request from Steve and
Donna Bastarache that the Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses be amended to
add Recording Studio as a permitted use in the Central Business District, at 7:
12 p.m. There was no one present to speak concerning the requested amendment.
Mr. Bastarache stated that there was no opposition from the neighbors and they
had spent $7,000 to soundproof the building because they do not want outside
sounds in the building, which means that inside sounds would not get out. Mayor
McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 7:23 p.m. After a brief discussion, the
board approved adding Recording Studio to the Town of Carthage Development
Ordinance Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses as a Permitted Use in the
Central Business District with the Special Requirement that all town ordinances
on sound will be followed and a maximum decimal level will be determined,
following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks thanked the Buggy Festival Committee for a wonderful job. Ms.
Sparks announced that the Commissioners were invited to the Moore County Summit
and she congratulated Fire Chief Brian Tyner on his grant. Ms. Sparks stated
that the state budget was not looking good.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing
the Clerk to Investigate for ANZ-04-13, James Winston Request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency for ANX-04-13,
James Winston. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the Date of
the Public Hearing for ANX-04-13, James Winston for Tuesday, June 18, 2013 at
6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   After a brief discussion concerning allowing Outdoor Flea Markets in the
Central Business District, the board agreed to table the issue following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
A.   After a brief discussion, the board agreed to approve the changes to the
Carthage Appearance Committee by-laws as presented, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Paul Davis reported that J.D. Monroe had resigned from the Historical
Committee. Commissioner Barber asked Mr. Davis to have the Historical Committee
prepare a list of items they might need in the upcoming fiscal year. Nancy
McKenzie stated that she was encouraged with what the Century Committee was
doing and she hoped all of the committees could work together. Ms. McKenzie
reported that fourteen planters had been placed and she thanked Public Works
Director Rocky Davis for his help and the Buggy Festival for their donation.
Ms. McKenzie informed the Board that the Appearance Committee had raised
$223.00 selling cupcakes at the Buggy Festival and Renee Brooks had raised $100
from the sale of pots. Mayor McGraw stated that anyone who wanted to apply to
the Appearance Committee needed to fill out an application and the applications
would be considered at the next Board meeting.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated that the Buggy Festival was great and she
complimented the Fire Department on their delicious hot dogs. She also thanked
all of the people for coming to the meeting. Commissioner Motz-Frazier reported
that she had visited all of the vendors at the Buggy Festival and had received
incredible comments and congratulated everyone who worked so hard. Commissioner
Dowdy stated that everyone had done an incredible job with the Buggy Festival.
Commissioner Graham congratulated the Fire & Rescue department for having three
employees that were recognized at the County Commissioner’s meeting.
Commissioner Barber reported that he had heard positive comments from the
parents in the kids section of the Buggy Festival and he thanked the committee
and commented on how spotless the streets were after the festival thanks to the
Public Works crew. Mayor McGraw thanked everyone for the Buggy Festival and
commended Police Chief Bart Davis on his young but mature new officers.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:15 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 22, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 22, 2013
8:30 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Wednesday, May 22, 2013 at 8:30 a.m. in the Fire Department located
at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Frazier and Catherine Graham. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2013/2014
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 8:37 a.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews reviewed highlights of the revenues and
expenditures. Town Manager Carol Sparks reminded the Board that the Town is
supposed to start repaying the Rural Center in December. In light of the State
cuts to the Rural Center, the Board instructed the Manager to check with Town
Attorney Doug Gill on the status of repayment. After some discussion, the
consensus of the Board was that Mr. Gill should write a letter to Blaine East
requesting payment of the money that is owed to the Rural Center. Ms. Sparks
reported that Little River is up for sale. There was discussion concerning the
amount of interest the Town is earning and the Fund Balance.
IV.   FIRE DEPARTMENT:
Fire Chief Brian Tyner informed the Board that he had received a SAFER grant
which will enable him to hire two full time employees which will allow the
department to have 24/7 coverage 365 days a year. Chief Tyner reported that all
fill in personnel will then be able to go to part time status. A brief
discussion was held concerning background checks on new employees and an
increase in the rate of pay for volunteers pay per call. Chief Tyner notified
the Board of the meeting that the County is holding to discuss the new sub
station on Glendon Carthage Road.
The mayor requested a five minute recess.
V.   POLICE DEPARTMENT:
 Police Chief Bart Davis reported that he had not added the additional employee
to his budget for this coming year. Chief Davis described how he had
restructured the department in order to have two officers per shift. After much
discussion about possible grants and waiting until after July 1 to see what the
State does, the Board approved taking money out of the General Fund now in
order to fund an additional officer, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. Four ayes and one nay (Commissioner
Motz-Frazier). Motion passed. Commissioner Motz-Frazier commended the Chief for
his work with the officers to restructure the department and stated that the
only reason she had voted against the motion was her concern about taking money
from the General Fund and the ability to replace it. Ms. Sparks stated that
reducing services and/or raising taxes would increase revenues.
VI.   PUBLIC WORKS:
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis informed the board that nothing has
changed in his budget and he has been spending and will continue to spend to
fix things. Mr. Davis described the pump stations that have been breaking down
and the estimated costs to fix and/or replace them. He informed the Board that
the only way to build up the Enterprise Fund is to raise rates. Mr. Davis
stated that the sewer interconnection improvement project will be put out to
bid as soon as the easements are established. Mayor McGraw inquired about a
generator for Town Hall in case of an emergency. After some discussion about
possibly using the old generator from Cox’s pump station, Commissioner Graham
made a motion to move money from the General Fund to purchase a portable 100 kw
generator. Commissioner Graham then rescinded her motion, and after further
discussion the Board approved moving up to $60,000 from the Fund Balance to
install a 200 kw portable diesel generator at the Town Hall, following a motion
made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes.
Motion carried.  Mr. Davis discussed the water lines uptown, the sewer project
at Tyson Woods, as well as paving and replacing the sidewalks on McReynolds
Street. The consensus of the Board was that the holly trees in front of the
Sinclair Building should be removed for safety purposes when the sidewalks are
replaced and agreed that the Town Manager should write Shawna Smith, Garden
Club President, a letter advising her that this would be done.
VII.   ADMINISTRATION:
Ms. Sparks stated that the budget contained a 2% salary increase for employees
and following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board approved a 2% increase for all employees and an increase to
the Administrative training line item. All ayes. Motion carried. After a brief
discussion, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board approved allocating $10,000.00 to the Century
Committee to be put toward the first mural with stipulations that the Board has
final approval of the mural and if the mural is not complete by July 2015, this
money will revert back to the Town. All ayes. Motion carried. Following a
presentation from Jeff Mahoney, Carolina Benefit Specialists and Mike Smith,
BCBS on a new health insurance plan for employees, the board approved switching
from NCLM to Carolina Benefit Specialists for employee health insurance,
following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Following the closing prayer given by Commissioner Dowdy, Mayor McGraw
adjourned the meeting at 12:47 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, ’’CMC’ Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 18, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
JUNE 18, 2013
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Tuesday, June 18, 2013 at 5:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Frazier and Catherine Graham. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2013/2014
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:48 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   
Commissioner Graham requested more clarification on the lapsed salary amount.
Town Manager Carol Sparks explained that any excess salary amount goes back
into the General Fund, except for any amount from the Public Works department
which goes into the Enterprise Fund. Ms. Sparks explained that the Enterprise
Fund should be self sufficient and the LGC frowns upon transferring money from
the General Fund into the Enterprise Fund. Commissioner Graham requested that
lapsed salary amounts be provided at each new budget year. Commissioner Barber
requested an explanation, and percent amount given, on the salary increases for
the Public Works employees. Ms. Sparks explained that she can authorize salary
increases as long as they are within the budgeted amounts. Ms. Sparks reported
that she had spoken to Town Attorney Doug Gill and he had stated that the Town
should hold off on sending a payment to the Rural Center for the time being.
Ms. Sparks stated that Finance Officer Kesha Matthews did a good job on the
budget; although, it had been a challenge. Commissioner Graham commented that
the good news was that the Town was not going to have to raise taxes.
IV.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:07 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, ’’CMC’ Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 18, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 18, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, June 18, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier and
Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were business owners Jerry & Barbara Hinesley, Dina Smith, Billy &
Patsy Salmon, Archie Kelly, Treva Godfrey, Kathy Smith, Edie Puckett, Jeremy
Matthews, Lisa Padilla, Roland Gilliam, Dustin & Jennifer Whitley; concerned
citizens including Rick Fleming, Melissa Johnson, Beth McNeely, Annette McGraw;
Appearance Committee members Nancy McKenzie, Hilda Morris and Renee Brooks.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
A.   Jerry Hinesley stated that the town ordinance prohibiting businesses from
placing merchandise outside is killing his business. He doesn’t see the
fairness and feels that the town is discriminating against him because others
leave stuff out all the time. Mr. Hinesley stated that he pays his taxes and
should be able to leave things out just like Fred’s, Wal-Mart and other retail
businesses. Mr. Hinesley passed around copies of petitions that he and other
business owners had customers sign.
B.   Billy Salmon stated that he agreed with Mr. Hinesley’s comments and he
wants the Town to amend this outdated ordinance. He believes that it is a win-
win situation for everyone when the business owners sell merchandise. Mr.
Salmon commented that he thinks the Town should do more to promote business.
C.   Lisa Padilla remarked that especially in the summer time she would like to
be able to put one T stand out. Ms. Padilla stated that having one rack outside
draws people into the store.
D.   Commissioner Dowdy stated that the Board understands the seriousness of
what the business owners are saying but the Town Manager is only enforcing the
ordinances; the Board of Commissioners are the ones that set and approve
changes to the ordinances. Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board agreed to hold a workshop on
July 8 at 7:00 p.m. to address the business owners concerns about putting
merchandise outside. All ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 21, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Budget Workshop May 22,
2013
C.   Write off 2008 Delinquent Water accounts
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing, on the Fiscal Year 2013-2014
budget at 6:55 p.m. There was no one to speak concerning this item. Mayor
McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:55 p.m. The board approved the Fiscal
Year 2013-2014 budget and budget ordinance, following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion
carried.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing, on the request from James Winston
for the non-contiguous annexation of his property located at 5464 Hwy. 22, at
6:56 p.m. There was no one to speak concerning this annexation. Mayor McGraw
closed the Public Hearing at 6:56 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Graham, the board adopted the
Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for James
Winston. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that she had spoken to two groups interested in
purchasing Little River. Commissioner Dowdy asked if the Town was responsible
for paying to fix the damage done to the Town’s water lines due to the fiber
optic cable installation being done for Moore County Schools. Public Works
Director Rocky Davis reported that the sewer plans for Tyson Woods are in
Raleigh for approval. The board directed Mr. Davis to call and follow up on
this approval since citizens are in danger of sewer leaking into their homes.
Commissioner Dowdy remarked on how nice the paving on Saunders Street was and
inquired as to when the rest of the area would be completed.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Rick Fleming spoke concerning the buildings in town that he is remodeling
in order to provide affordable office space. One business has already moved in
and another is scheduled for July. Mr. Fleming presented a proposal to raise
money to replace the roof on the old buggy building. Mr. Fleming would like to
place two or three trailers around town to collect cans that could then be
recycled to raise money to go towards a new roof. He also mentioned that he is
meeting with the people from the Historical Registry on Friday. There was a
brief discussion on raising funds to be used for a privately owned building.
B.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board voted to reappoint Max Muse to the
Carthage Planning Board for a three year term contingent on the approval of the
County Board of Commissioners. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the board voted to reappoint Bob Hunt to the Carthage
Planning Board for a three year term contingent on the approval of the County
Board of Commissioners. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   The board voted to reappoint John McDonald to the Historical Committee for
a three year term to expire June 2016 following a motion made by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   The board voted to reappoint Dora Anne Maness to the Historical Committee
for a three year term to expire June 2016 following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board voted to reappoint Hilda Morris to the
Appearance Committee for a three year term to expire June 2016. All ayes.
Motion carried.
G.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board voted to reappoint Bonnie Brown to the
Appearance Committee for a three year term to expire June 2016. All ayes.
Motion carried.
H.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the board voted to reappoint Edie Puckett to the
Appearance Committee for a three year term to expire June 2016. All ayes.
Motion carried.
I.   The board voted to appoint Renee Brooks to the Appearance Committee for a
term to expire June 2016 following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
J.   The board voted to appoint Lauren Kenefick to the Appearance Committee for
a term to expire June 2015 following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and
seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
K.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, the board voted to appoint George Wilson to the Appearance Committee
for a term to expire June 2016. All ayes. Motion carried.
L.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board voted to appoint Judi Kelly to the Appearance
Committee for a term to expire June 2015. All ayes. Motion carried.
M.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board voted to appoint Melissa Johnson to the Appearance Committee
for a term to expire June 2015. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
A.   Outdoor Flea Markets were briefly discussed during the comments from the
public and will be addressed at the workshop.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Nancy McKenzie asked the board if the Appearance Committee’s $800 budget
allocation had been approved and reported that sub-committees had been set up
and the committee is seeking donations for trash cans, cigarette caddies and
benches. Ms. McKenzie also asked all business owners to sign the sheet she had
in order to try and start a new Business Owners Association. No one from the
Historical Committee was present.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley thanked everyone in the audience for attending the meeting
and working together. Commissioner Motz-Frazier stated that she agreed with
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and thanked all of the departments for their work during
the storm. Commissioner Barber thanked the departments for their work during
the storm. Commissioner Dowdy thanked everyone for being there and stated that
he hoped they would attend even when there were no specific issues of concern.
Commissioner Graham agreed with all of the other commissioner comments and
informed the audience that there would not be a tax increase in the coming
year. Mayor McGraw agreed with all of the commissioners and said a prayer in
memory of Southern Pines Police Officer Stanley Klingenschmidt.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:38 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 27, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JUNE 27, 2013
5:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday,
June 27, 2013 at 5:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Hartwell Wright, North Carolina League of Municipalities and concerned citizen
John Chappell.
The purpose of the meeting was to meet with a representative from the League of
Municipalities to discuss recruiting for a new Town Manager.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
Commissioner Motz-Frazier gave the invocation.
Hartwell Wright extended greetings to the Board from the League. Mr. Wright
stated that he appreciated the invitation to speak and he was going to keep the
presentation very basic. He encouraged the board to ask questions at any time.
Mr. Wright explained how competitive the field is for Town Managers and
stressed that it is important for the Town to be professional in presenting
itself. Mr. Wright discussed the following steps necessary to selecting a
manager:
1.   Roles of the League and the Town
2.   Importance of Process
3.   Agree on what you want in Manager
4.   Agree on time frame/procedure for selection
Mr. Wright explained that he has a list of retired managers who might be
interested in acting as interim manager and he indicated that since the Town
does have department heads we may only need someone two to three days a week.
Mr. Wright suggested that the board bring in the interim manager about a week
before the current manager leaves so that she can pass on any necessary
information. He advised that if any of the board members are approached about
the position, they should advise the person to send their information to the
Mayor, since the manager works for the board as a collective body. Mr. Wright
stated that an interim has the same authority as a regular full time manager
and that the Board should share their recruiting steps with the media, except
for any confidential information. A brief discussion was held concerning using
a search firm; Mr. Wright indicated the average firm cost is $15,000.
Mayor McGraw summed up that the steps the board should be taking now are:
select an interim, decide on manager qualifications and place an ad. Mayor
McGraw thanked Mr. Wright for all of the valuable information he provided.
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley gave the closing prayer.
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:12 p.m.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 8, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/WORKSHOP
JULY 8, 2013
7:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Workshop on
Monday, July 8, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building in Carthage.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks and Town Clerk Karen O’Hara.
Also present were business owners Jerry & Barbara Hinesley, Dina Smith, Billy &
Patsy Salmon, Treva Godfrey, Kathy Smith, Dustin & Jennifer Whitley; Planning
Board Chairman Chris Lassiter; concerned citizens including John Chappell and
Hurley Thompson; Appearance Committee members Nancy McKenzie, Judi Kelly, Edie
Puckett, Lauren Kenefick, Renee Brooks and her daughter.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss businesses in town placing
merchandise outside their store for display.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
Mayor McGraw opened the meeting by stating that this meeting was to discuss
outdoor flea markets in the Central Business District (CBD). Mayor McGraw
stated that the Board had previously heard from many in the audience how they
feel about this subject, so he only wanted to hear from audience members who
had something new to say. Ms. Paula Cagle who lives on Martin Street stated
that Martin Street is never maintained and she urged all of the commissioners
to ride down it. Mayor McGraw told Ms. Cagle that the board would be happy to
address that subject, just not at the meeting tonight. Ms. Cagle then
emphasized that Mr. Salmon’s is a nice flea market.
A discussion was held concerning the definition of a flea market. Town Manager
Carol Sparks stated that according to the ordinance, an outdoor flea market is
an indoor flea market that sets their merchandise outside and does not have
more than 20% of their items dedicated to new merchandise. Mr. Hinesley does
not consider his store a flea market and there was some discrepancy about the
definition of new versus used merchandise.
Mr. Hurley Thompson spoke up concerning a gentleman who used to sell
cantaloupes and watermelons from a truck on his property. Mr. Thompson claimed
that this man was told that he had to pay $150 to get a permit and that what he
was doing was against the law. Mr. Thompson continued to raise his voice and
make disparaging comments towards the Town Manager. Mayor McGraw advised Mr.
Thompson that he could not address the Manager or the Board in that manner.
Commissioner Barber stated that he was not in favor of changing the ordinance.
He felt that it was opening a Pandora’s Box and there would be things we didn’t
want to see outside of the stores. Both Mayor McGraw and Mayor Pro-Tem Riley
stated that we needed ways to be creative to promote business, referencing the
permit that the merchants can request six times per year. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley
stated that she loved having the businesses but they have to follow the rules.
Commissioner Dowdy compared the Town’s ordinance to the constitution; the
ordinance states what can be done. He also stated that he has seen the benefit
of professionally made signs. Commissioner Graham stated that the Town needs to
help the businesses, with a suggestion of posting them on the website.
Commissioner Motz-Frazier explained that the board had considered numerous
ideas, all of which were too complex to enforce. Other possible options
included sandwich board signs, forming a Merchant’s group, producing a brochure
and joint events with the town.
Planning Board Chairman Chris Lassiter explained that the Planning Board
discussed this issue for a long time and it is not easy to find a solution. The
Planning Board agreed that the Town needed to have a Code Enforcement Officer
to enforce the rules at all times and they believe that the rules are not being
enforced equally and that the business owners are being picked on. The Planning
Board felt that the Sidewalk Sale ordinance allowing a permit for 24 hours six
times a year was not enough; they suggested that the businesses could possibly
submit a site plan of their outdoor display to be approved by the town for a
longer period of time. Mr. Lassiter informed the Commissioners that the
Planning Board had passed a motion to recommend to the Town Commissioners that
business owners be allowed to put merchandise outside and the sidewalk sale
ordinance currently in force should be modified. They also agreed that the Town
needs to hire a Code Enforcement Officer in order to be consistent with code
enforcement throughout the town.
Ms. Lauren Kenfick suggested having Sidewalk Saturday’s and the merchants were
informed about the murals that the Century Committee is planning in an effort
to make the town look good and bring people to town.
Mr. Hinesley stated that the businesses should be able to put stuff out in
moderation and Mr. Salmon stated that the Town needs to revisit the outdated
ordinances.
Mayor McGraw stated that the ordinances were not going to be changed at this
time and that Outdoor Flea Markets are not allowed in the Central Business
District.
Commissioner Barber gave the closing prayer.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 16, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 16, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, July 16, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier and
Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Carol Sparks, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Denny Ferguson, Carthage Elementary School Principal; Tommy
Prickett and Randy Hussey, Fry & Prickett Funeral Home; concerned citizen John
Chappell; Appearance Committee member Nancy McKenzie and Historical Committee
member Paul Davis.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
The board approved adding John Chappell to the agenda under New Business
Resolution for Condemnation of Property, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Budget Workshop June 18,
2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting, June 18, 2013
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 27, 2013
D.   Budget Amendments #11, #12, #13, #14
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Police Chief Bart Davis and Mr. Ferguson presented a new traffic pattern
for dropping off and picking up children at Carthage Elementary School. Chief
Davis informed the board that the school had made a minor adjustment this year
which helped, but feel that in order to make it safer for the children; they
need to eliminate two way traffic on Rockingham Street for an hour in the
morning and an hour in the afternoon. Mr. Ferguson stated that he will have
plenty of school personnel to assist and notices of the new pattern will be
sent to all of the parents. Mr. Ferguson will personally deliver notices to all
of the residents on the street who will be affected. The board unanimously
agreed that if this pattern would help assure the safety of the children they
were all for it.
B.   Mr. Prickett introduced Mr. Hussey, who will be the funeral director at
the Robbins location, and presented a request that the town donate a track of
land at Cross Hill Cemetery where the funeral home can bury unclaimed cremated
remains. They are requesting an area where graves cannot be dug and stated that
the cremated remains would be buried in a plastic box with the funeral home
marking the area with a small flat marker. The funeral home currently has six
remains, some dating back to the 1960’s and Mr. Prickett would like to dispose
of them properly. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded
by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board approved deeding the requested piece of
property to Fry & Prickett Funeral Home. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
and Mr. Prickett agreed that if any other funeral home in the area wanted to
bury remains in that tract of land, they should contact Fry & Prickett.
Ms. Sparks informed the board that there was another situation involving the
cemetery where a body had been buried in the incorrect plot. No one is sure
whose fault it was but Fry & Prickett and the Town have proposed splitting the
approximate $1,000 cost to move the body. The board approved splitting the cost
with Fry & Prickett Funeral Home to move the body, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager
Carol Sparks reported that Fire Chief Brian Tyner had just attended the County
board meeting and received a certificate from the 2013 Sandhills Public Safety
Institute. Mayor McGraw congratulated the Chief. Mayor McGraw announced that
this would be the Town Manager’s last board meeting and he wished Ms. Sparks
good luck on her move to Virginia. Ms. Sparks reported that Public Works has
been behind on the cutting of right of ways due to the rain and many water
leaks; they were working hard this week to catch up. Ms. Sparks reiterated that
there were 31 cut offs, the most she could remember having and Mr. Heinsley’s
request for a Special Permit. The board discussed possible alternatives for Mr.
Heinsley. Commissioner Dowdy stated that Public Works Director Rocky Davis had
done a great job recovering from all the rain and requested that Martin Street
be placed at the top of the list to be cut with the long arm mower.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   After a brief discussion, the board voted to change the date of the
September meeting to Tuesday, September 24, 2013 following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
passed.
B.   Mr. Chappell began his presentation stating that he had inherited property
from his Uncle Jackson Hume, Jr. and Aunt Elizabeth Chappell Hume. In the
1990’s the land was surveyed for a sewer line. Mr. Chappell claims that then
Mayor Larry Caddell and Town Manager Bob Boyette made a deal with his uncle
that the town would not annex him into town for ten years and would give him
clear title to a little sliver of land in exchange for the easement. According
to Mr. Chappell, Mr. Caddell later signed a Quit Claim Deed not realizing that
Mr. Chappell and his sister owned the pump station, which they don’t need. Mr.
Chappell stated that he and his sister would happily sign a deed turning the
pump station over to the town. Mr. Chappell emphasized that they would need
clean title to the land. Mr. Chappell suggested that the town should condemn
the entire piece of property, then he and his sister would sign the pump
station over to the town and the rest of the property could be turned over to
he and his sister. Mr. Chappell feels that this solution would allow the town
to live up to its promise. Ms. Sparks reported that Emily Tobias, who works
with Town Attorney Doug Gill, searched the records and believes that the title
of that property resides with the heirs of R.T. Vaughn and L.L. Marion. Ms.
Sparks stated that she had talked to Mr. Gill today and he had told her that
the condemnation doesn’t give the town any more than what a signed easement
would. Mr. Gill stressed to Ms. Sparks that the condemnation is not changing
the ownership of the property, it is just for the easement that the Town needs
for the sewer pump. After much discussion and a request that Mr. Gill provide
the board with a copy of the letters that he will be sending to the owners, the
board approved the resolution to institute condemnation proceedings for a strip
of land to be used for an easement, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried. After a
brief discussion, Commissioner Dowdy requested to amend his original motion to
include Exhibit A. Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded
by Commissioner Graham, the board approved the resolution to institute
condemnation proceedings for a strip of land, as defined in Exhibit A, to be
used for an easement. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Nancy McKenzie reported that this month the Appearance Committee will be
ordering five trash cans to be placed up town. Ms McKenzie stated that the
Public Works Director will be building six planters on McReynolds Street and
the committee will be planting shrubs and flowers in them. Paul Davis informed
the board that some members of the Historical Committee met with Chuck Watson
and Rick Fleming earlier this evening to discuss their request that the
committee complete the application for consideration of the old buggy building
for nomination to the National Register of Historic Places. Mr. Davis reported
that the Tour of Homes will be held on December 1 and the committee will be
participating in the County Fair again this year.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Graham asked about the abandoned pick up truck on Saunders Street.
Chief Davis stated that the truck’s registration and inspection had expired but
it still had insurance. There was some discussion about the ordinances and it
was determined that the vehicle was on the right of way and the Chief should
require the owner to remove it. Commissioner Dowdy commented to Ms. Sparks that
over the years there had been good times and bad but it had been a pleasure
working with her, he would miss her and wished her the best. All of the
commissioners agreed with Commissioner Dowdy’s remarks. Mayor McGraw gave his
congratulations to Chief Tyner and thanked all of the employees. Mayor McGraw
thanked the Town Manager for her leadership and stated that everything was
running smoothly and it would be a smooth transition. Ms. Sparks responded that
the board would not be able to find better people than the town had now.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 8:04 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition
of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer or employee
following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular
session at 8:23 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
Upon returning to open session, the board approved a motion to issue a bonus to
the Town Manger as an expression of gratitude for dedicated service in the
amount of three weeks pay, the one week of previously scheduled vacation, as
well as having an overlapping period of pay for an Interim Manager, following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All
ayes. Motion carried. After additional discussion, Commissioner Graham moved to
rescind her original motion and was seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried. After further discussion, following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, the board agreed to
express their gratitude to Ms. Sparks for her years of service with three weeks
paid leave time, beginning August 1, 2013. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a brief discussion, the board agreed to set a Special Meeting for Friday,
July 19, 2013 at 3:00 p.m. at the Town Hall in order to interview a candidate
for Interim Manager. Both Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and Commissioner Barber indicated
that they might not be able to attend this meeting but agreed to go along with
the consensus of the other members of the board. Commissioner Dowdy stated that
the town should be more vigilant and fair with handling complaints. He
suggested that Commissioners should ride through town and bring any situations
noticed to the attention of the manager. The board briefly discussed grants
that require jobs to be created and the responsibility for repayment if those
requirements are not met.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 9:13 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 19, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JULY 19, 2013
3:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Friday,
July 19, 2013 at 3:00 p.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building (Town Hall).
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley
was absent.
Others present were Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Thomas Robinson, candidate for
Interim Town Manager and concerned citizen John Chappell.
The purpose of the meeting was to interview a candidate for Interim Town
Manager.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
The board moved into closed session at 3:01 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition
of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer or employee
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular session
at 3:53 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
Upon returning to open session, the board took a recess.
At 4:05 p.m. the board moved into closed session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) consider the qualifications, competence, performance, condition
of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer or employee
following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular
session at 4:45 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
Upon returning to open session, the board approved a motion to offer Thomas
Robinson the position of Interim Town Manager on a part time temporary basis,
working two and a half days per week starting Monday, July 29, 2013, following
a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Barber.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved offering Thomas Robinson a salary of
$27.00 per hour. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor McGraw reiterated that Mayor Pro-Tem Riley had stated at the regular
board meeting on July 17, 2013 that if she was unable to make the meeting
today, she would agree to go along with the consensus of the other board
members. Commissioner Barber also stated that when Mayor Pro-Tem Riley had told
him she would be unable to attend the meeting today, she stated that she would
go along with the consensus of the board.
John Chappell gave the closing prayer.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 4:49 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 20, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 20, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, August 20, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier and
Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Appearance Committee member Nancy McKenzie, Historical
Committee member Paul Davis and concerned citizen John Chappell.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting July 8, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 16, 2013
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session July 16, 2013
D.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting July 19, 2013
E.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session July 19, 2013
F.   Budget Amendment #1
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Interim Town
Manager Tom Robinson gave an update on the sewer projects and reminded the
board about the Public Officials Workshop and the NCLM Conference. Mr. Robinson
stated that he is enjoying being Town Manager, meeting people and working with
the board. Mr. Robinson clarified that the Town did have to accept the lowest
responsible bid for a project and reported that the maps had been recorded and
the Quit Claim Deed is in progress in order to finalize the condemnation.
Commissioner Dowdy thanked the Manager and Public Works for taking care of
cutting the right of way on Old Glendon Road. Mr. Robinson suggested that the
board should meet to discuss what they would like him to do in his capacity as
Town Manager. He proposed either scheduling a special meeting or putting it on
the September 24 agenda.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board agreed to appoint Lorna Clack to the
Historical Committee with a term to expire in June 2015. All ayes. Motion
carried.
B.   The board approved setting September 24. 2013 as the date of the Public
Hearing to hear the request that Multifamily Dwellings be allowed as a
Conditional Use at 402 Pinecrest Street, following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C.   The board agreed that they needed to set goals for the Town and the new
manager before advertising or interviewing. When questioned, Mr. Robinson
stated that he is open as to how long he can stay; although, he will need to
have knee surgery sometime after the first of the year, which will require a
six week recovery period. After much discussion, following a motion made by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the board
scheduled a workshop for October 21, 2013 at 5:00 p.m. in the Fire Department
to set goals and requirements for the Town and the new Town Manager. All ayes.
Motion carried.
D.   Commissioner Graham explained that this mural ordinance is one from
Exeter, California and Steve Lapping had changed Exeter to Carthage. The mural
committee has requested that the town look at the sample and come up with an
ordinance. The board agreed that Mr. Robinson would research it further and
would have a recommendation in thirty days. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and
Commissioner Graham will notify the mural committee.
E.   After much discussion about Partners in Progress, the board directed Mr.
Robinson to write a letter to Pat Corso to see what the organization can do for
the Town. Mr. Robinson suggested relaying the Town’s concerns to the County
Board of Commissioners as well.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Nancy McKenzie reported that she and Judi Kelly attended the Century Committee
meeting last night to update the group on the Appearance Committee projects,
and the Century Committee is donating $1,000 to the Appearance Committee to be
used for trash cans and benches. Ms. McKenzie informed the board that the
committee will be holding a fundraising fish fry on Friday, September 13 and
the Sheriff’s Department is having community service workers water the flowers
in the planters. Paul Davis reported that the Historical Committee is still
working on the application to the Historic Registry for the old buggy property,
the committee will be moving items to the fairgrounds on Friday morning and the
Christmas Tour of Homes is in question at this time due to a lack of
participating homeowners.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Barber asked about placing a flashing sign at the end of
Rockingham Street to assist with the new traffic pattern. Police Chief Bart
Davis replied that there will be a car and an officer there for a few weeks and
the citizens who live across from the school are happy that parents are no
longer parking in their yards. Commissioner Barber stated that he had talked to
a parent about an interactive garden at the school and he handed out a flyer
about a regional parks symposium. Commissioner Graham commented that the board
has mentioned some goals tonight and that the board needs to let the candidates
for Town Manager know the goals in order to see if they fit the criteria.
Commissioner Dowdy stated that the board has a clean slate and a new beginning
to encourage change for the better.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 7:43 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (3) to consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public
body in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the attorney
and the public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged; this consultation
will be by phone and N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (6) to consider the
qualifications, competence, performance, condition of appointment of a public
officer or prospective public officer or employee following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes.
Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:26 p.m. following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Upon returning to open session, the board approved a motion to issue the
Interim Manager a travel reimbursement of $125.00 per month, with any excess
travel paid at the usual rate per mile, retroactive to his date of hire,
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Graham. All ayes. Motion carried. After consulting by phone with Doug Gill,
Town Attorney, the consensus of the board was that Ryan Flowers could be placed
on the Police Department roster in order for him to retain his certification
with the stipulation that the agreement specify a time frame, that there be no
requirement of hours to work and that Mr. Gill review and approve the written
agreement.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:34 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 24, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 24, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, September 24, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy,
Jr., Catherine Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier and Artie Barber. A quorum. Mayor Pro-
Tem Jean Riley was absent.
Others present were Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Representative Allen McNeill, Attorney Susan Burkhart, Town
Attorney Doug Gill, Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief
Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Appearance Committee members Nancy McKenzie
and Judi Kelly, concerned citizens Lloyd McGraw and Annette McGraw, two
students from Pembroke University.   
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Mayor McGraw informed
everyone that Mayor Pro-Tem Riley would not be at the meeting because her
husband Jimmy is in the hospital. Mayor McGraw extended the Board’s thoughts
and prayers to the Riley family.
I.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC: 
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 20, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting August 20, 2013
C.   Amendments to the Municipal Records Retention and Disposition Schedule
D.   Budget Amendment #2
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
Commissioner Barber introduced Representative Allen McNeill and explained that
Representative McNeill represents Carthage in the NC House of Representatives.
Representative McNeill stated that he wished he could have gotten to Carthage
sooner but his schedule has been very busy. He stressed that he is always
available to listen and help the Town work through problems. Representative
McNeill stated that he is our public servant in Raleigh.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing, on the request from Edwin Moore
for a Conditional Use permit to allow multifamily housing on his property
located at 402 Pinecrest Street, at 6:38 p.m. Lloyd McGraw was present
representing Mr. Moore. Town Clerk Karen O’Hara reported that she had received
two calls, one from Colin McKenzie and one from Mr. McKenzie’s daughter-in-law.
Mr. McKenzie’s son and daughter-in-law own the property across the street from
Mr. Moore’s. Their main concerns were that only two families would be allowed
to live on this property and that there would be enough parking provided on the
property so that the road would not be blocked in case an emergency vehicle
needed to get through. Mr. Lloyd McGraw stated that he was going to be working
on an area of the property to be used for parking. After some discussion with
Mr. Lloyd McGraw, Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:47 p.m. The board
approved a Conditional Use Permit for multifamily housing to be located at 402
Pinecrest Street with the following conditions, that only two families would
live on this property and another water meter would be installed prior to
occupancy, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Interim Town
Manager Tom Robinson summarized the status of the bids for the sewer
interconnection project and Buggy Drive. Mr. Robinson applauded Public Works
Director Rocky Davis and his staff for the good job they did on the planters
and stated that they had worked on sewer problems all weekend. Mr. Robinson
stated that he had found a copy of the 1999 Land Use Plan, a copy of which is
attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference. He commented
that this might be a good starting point for the October 21 st goals and
objectives meeting. He reiterated that he is enjoying being the Town’s manager.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board agreed to designate Commissioner Barber as the
voting delegate for the NCLM Annual Business Meeting. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board agreed to designate Mayor McGraw as the alternate delegate for the
NCLM Annual Business Meeting, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham
and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a brief discussion, the board approved the proposed Ordinance to
Amend the Town of Carthage Code of Ordinances – Traffic Schedules, Chapter 73,
Schedule I, following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded
by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the board approved awarding the contract for the Town of
Carthage Interconnection Project to Sandhills Contractors subject to the
securement of interim financing for this project. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   The board adopted the Resolution of the Town of Carthage Declaring its
Official Intent to Reimburse Expenditures under United States Department of
Treasury Regulations, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   Mr. Robinson informed the board that the amount of the USDA Loan shown on
their copy of the Project Ordinance needed to be changed to $1,056,000; the
total expenditures amount was correct. Following a motion made by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, the board adopted the Capital
Project Ordinance for the Sewer Interconnection Project as submitted. All ayes.
Motion carried.
F.   The board approved the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale of the 1986 Brush Bandit Chipper, Model 90 XP, 38 HP, gas
power Wisconsin engine, serial #86100168 to be sold on GOVDEALS.com, following
a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier.
All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Mr. Robinson requested that the board review the suggested mural ordinance
and pass on any recommendations they may have. Mr. Robinson informed the board
that he had received a request from the mural committee that the town release
the $10,000 donation that had been appropriated to go toward the first mural.
The board agreed that the committee should have a signed lease for the painting
of the first mural before the money is given to the committee.
B.   After a brief discussion concerning the bids received for the Tyson Woods/
Buggy Drive sewer project, the board agreed to table this matter until the next
regular meeting in October to give the Manager time to investigate options,
including funding, for this project following a motion made by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Nancy McKenzie reported that the Appearance Committee had raised $1,200.00 from
their fish fry and the Historical Committee may make a contribution to assist
them in purchasing new flowers. Judi Kelly informed the board that the
committee was working step by step to help clean up the town and get the
businesses to help. A discussion was held concerning cutting down the holly
trees and the consensus of the board was that they should be cut down.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Barber reported that he and Fire Chief Brian Tyner had attended
Emergency Services school and it was very informative. He commended the Fire
Department, Police Department and Public Works. Commissioner Graham thanked
Representative McNeill for attending the meeting and commended Ms. McKenzie and
Ms. Kelly for the work the Appearance Committee is doing and for working
together with the Town staff. Commissioner Dowdy stated that Commissioner
Graham had covered it all. Commissioner Motz-Frazier stated that the new owner
of Moore Coffee was going to start serving lunch and that the recording studio
had opened. She suggested that the board consider setting a date at our next
meeting for a team building workshop. Mayor McGraw stated that since The Pilot
is no longer covering the Carthage area, we need to make sure that information
is supplied to the paper about upcoming events.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 7:42 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (3) to consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public
body in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the attorney
and the public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged, to discuss a
lawsuit filed against the town following a motion made by Commissioner Graham
and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.  On the
advice of legal counsel, the motion was amended by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, to include the litigation parties of the
Town of Carthage and Quality Built Homes. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
returned to regular session at 8:15 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.  No action was taken. 
Upon returning to open session, the board discussed and agreed to start
assessing fines to businesses that continue to disregard the ordinance against
placing merchandise on the sidewalk, even after they have been given written
notification by mail. The board discussed the purchase of a generator and
agreed to do further research on this topic and to hold off on making a
decision on this purchase until the Buggy Drive project was complete.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:50 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 15, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 15, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, October 15, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier and
Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Appearance Committee member Nancy McKenzie, Historical
Committee member Paul Davis and concerned citizen Annette McGraw.   
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
The board approved adding Downtown Sidewalk and Planter Project to the agenda
under New Business, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded
by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, the board approved adding Budget Amendments #3 and #4 to the agenda
under the Consent Agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.  
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 24, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session September 24, 2013
C.   Budget Amendments #3, #4
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
None
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Interim Town
Manager Tom Robinson reported that he and Commissioner Barber were very
impressed with their visit to Fort Bragg. Mr. Robinson stated that he and
Public Works Director Rocky Davis had meet with the construction engineers for
Phase 3 of Forest Ridge. Mr. Robinsons stressed that plans need to be made now
to extend the 12” line down Union Church Road so that we are ready when funds/
grants are available. Mr. Robinson summarized the challenges the Town had
completing the audit this year and stated that the Local Government Commission
would require a review of this document before they will issue the bond
anticipation notes. The Town may need to hold a special meeting to approve the
bond sale.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, the board adopted the Resolution Making Certain Findings and
Determinations, Authorizing the Filing of an Application with the Local
Government Commission and Requesting the Local Government Commission to Sell
Bonds at a Private Sale in Connection with the Issuance of Revenue Bonds by the
Town. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following some discussion, the board approved authorizing the Town Manager
and Public Works Director to undertake the removal of the holly trees, the
replacement of the sidewalks as indicated and the construction of planters
along this same area following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Mr. Robinson summarized the Buggy Drive sewer situation stating that if
the Town were to fix this problem, they would be using public funds to fix a
situation on private property. Mr. Robinson informed the board that he had
spoken to Kara Millonzi at the School of Government about some different
options and Doug Gill, our Town Attorney would be calling Ms. Millonzi. Mr.
Robinson does not recommend taking any more money from the water and sewer
fund; instead he suggested looking at other options. The board consensus was to
proceed with the lawyer consultations and to set up a meeting with the Buggy
Drive residents affected. The board agreed that Mayor McGraw and Commissioner
Dowdy would attend this meeting.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Nancy McKenzie presented a map of the downtown area which shows where the
planters are/will be located. She stated that she appreciated all the hard work
that Mr. Davis and his men have done. Ms. McKenzie brought up her concern that
the County will not be able to water the planters after the end of December and
something needs to be worked out. Mayor McGraw suggested that the board members
and staff think of some possible solutions. Ms. McKenzie stated that the
Appearance Committee is talking to Rick Fleming and Chuck Watson about painting
the buildings after the trees are cut down. Paul Davis reported that he did not
have any information on the application to the National Registry for the old
buggy building. Mr. Davis stated that the Historical Committee will not be
doing the Tour of Homes this year, possibly switching to every two years, but
will hold an Open House at the museum on Sunday, December 1 st .
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Barber reported that the tour of Fort Brag was awesome and the
personnel they spoke with there suggested that the local Towns reach out to the
returning military to volunteer in their communities. Commissioner Barber
reported that he had attended many interesting sessions at the NCLM conference
and spoke to many people who thought very highly of Mr. Robinson. He thanked
the Board and the citizens for allowing him to go. Commissioner Graham thanked
Commissioner Barber for attending the conference and thanked Chief Davis for
his department’s assistance with the Union Pines homecoming parade.
Commissioner Dowdy thanked all of the departments for their work and thanked
Mr. Robinson for his report on Buggy Drive. He also informed the board how
impressed he was with all of the equipment that the Fire Department has and how
well Chief Tyner takes care of it all. Commissioner Motz-Frazier announced that
she and Mayor McGraw had participated in a read out at Carthage Elementary
School and she was very impressed with the school. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley
commented that she is pleased with the wonderful things happening in Carthage
and thanked Mr. Robinson for doing such a good job. Mayor McGraw stated that he
had received a good report from one of the neighborhoods about the foot patrols
that the Police Department has been providing. Mayor McGraw reported that he
had heard positive feedback on the new school traffic pattern, had met with the
Rotary Club and would be attending a school facilities meeting.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:37 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 28, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/WORKSHOP
OCTOBER 28, 2013
6:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Workshop on
Monday, October 28, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building
(Town Hall).
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A full
board.
Others present were Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was to set goals and requirements for the Town and
the new Town Manager.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson thanked the commissioners for the information
they had provided and requested that they let him know if his summary was
accurate and if he had left anything off. Mr. Robinson stated that the board
had done a good job in identifying a standard evaluation form for a manager.
The board discussed the necessity of having at least a yearly evaluation of the
manager, as well as ways to obtain relevant information from an applicant in an
interview situation.
After much discussion the board agreed that the following topics should be
added to the Town priorities:
∙   Employee retention
∙   Succession planning
∙   Help Carthage be a destination not just a pass through
∙   Improve efficiency and effectiveness of town services
With one addition to the Manager attributes:
∙   Enthusiasm for the town
Discussion was held concerning the possibility of raising water/sewer rates
and/or taxes. Mr. Robinson suggested that the Town get preliminary plans in
place for needed upgrades and repairs so that when there is an opportunity for
available funds, we will be ready to apply. He suggested that during the budget
workshop the board could look at prioritizing the key issues raised for the
future.
There was much discussion on the type of person the board would like to see as
manager, as well as the possibility of having a part time manager with other
part time professionals to assist. The possibility of interns and co-ops with
other municipalities was discussed. The board agreed to have an open mind with
the candidates and look at all of their qualifications and backgrounds. Mr.
Robinson stated that the town has a good staff and he is impressed with the
board; they want to improve the town and need a good manager to help accomplish
that.
After much discussion, the consensus of the board was that they would consider
hiring a part time manager and supplement the position with other contracted
professionals. This could be on a trial basis with a reevaluation of the
arrangement after the budget is prepared. Mr. Robinson indicated that he would
be interested in the arrangement with no long term commitment. Mayor McGraw
stressed that this arrangement would have to be accomplished for the same
salary amount as used to pay a full time manager; no budget increase. The board
approved requesting that the Interim Town Manager, Mr. Tom Robinson, submit a
proposal outlining how he believes he would enact the use of a part time
manager, working with other contract positions to assist, along with a time
line as to how fast this could be enacted, if approved by the board, following
a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes. Motion carried.
The board set a special meeting for Tuesday, November 12, 2013 at 8:00 a.m. at
Town Hall in order to approve the Bond Participation Note. 
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:24 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 12, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 12, 2013
8:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Tuesday,
November 12, 2013 at 8:00 a.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building (Town
Hall).
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Pat Motz-Fraizer and Catherine Graham. A full
board.
Others present were Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara
and Finance Officer Kesha Matthews.
The purpose of the meeting was to approve the bond note.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 7:59 a.m.
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson briefly discussed the two documents and
indicated that the Bond Order needed to be approved first and then the
Resolution. Mr. Robinson reported that BB&T had purchased the bonds at 1.1%
interest for a period of one year.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier, and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board adopted the Bond Order Authorizing the Issuance
of Water and Sewer System Revenue Bonds to Provide Funds to Acquire, Construct
and Equip Improvements to the Town’s Water and Sanitary Sewer Systems;
Providing for the Issuance of Additional Revenue Bonds; Providing for the
Issuance of Revenue Bond Anticipation Notes in Anticipation of the Issuance of
Revenue Bonds; Providing for the Collection of Service Charges for the use of
the System; Providing for the Creation of Certain Special Funds; Pledging to
the Payment of the Principal of and the Interest on the Revenue Bonds and Notes
Certain Net Revenues of the System; Setting Forth the Rights and Remedies of
Holders; and Setting Forth the Details of Certain Related Matters. All ayes.
Motion carried.
The board approved the Resolution providing for the Issuance of a $1,056,000
Water and Sewer System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, Series 2013, following a
motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Barber.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Motz-Frazier, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:05 a.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 19, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 19, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, November 19, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley,
Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Pat Motz-Frazier and
Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Commissioner Elect Jimmy Chalflinch, Justin Knight and Matt
Braswell, Martin Starnes & Associates, CPAs; Historical Committee member Paul
Davis and concerned citizens Roland Gilliam and John Chappell.   
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:36 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
The board approved adding the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale under New Business item F, following a motion made by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 15, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Workshop October 28, 2013
C.   Budget Amendments #5, #6, #7, #8
V.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Mr. Justin Knight and Mr. Matt Braswell gave a presentation on the FY
2012/2013 audit. Mr. Knight presented a power point that reviewed the
highlights of the audit and reported that the audit had been approved by the
LGC. Mr. Knight and Mr. Braswell recommended that the Town pay attention to
their utility fees, tax rate, General Fund and Enterprise Fund balances. Mayor
McGraw thanked Mr. Knight and Mr. Braswell for their presentation.
Mayor McGraw called a brief recess so that the auditors could gather their
equipment together.
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Interim Town
Manager Tom Robinson reported that he and the staff had been busy with the
sewer interconnection paperwork, which has now been completed. The meeting with
the citizens on Buggy Drive is scheduled for November 25 th . Mr. Robinson
requested that any of the commissioners interested in attending the Essentials
of Municipal Government class let Town Clerk Karen O’Hara know. Mr. Robinson
commented on the holly trees and the sidewalks downtown as well as the Forest
Ridge and Hadley’s Ridge subdivision activity. Mr. Robinson expressed concern
about the Town’s computer system and declared that he would like to make a
presentation of improvement needs and costs at the December meeting so that the
board can issue an authorization to proceed. Mr. Robinson announced that he is
scheduled to have knee surgery on January 2 nd and will be out most of the
month. Town Attorney Doug Gill is working on the deed to transfer the rescue
building to the town. Mr. Robinson reported that Connect Inc. has paid the
Rural Center and he is still reviewing the Little River files.
Ms. O’Hara reported that she had attended the TARPO meeting and the committee
had reviewed the suggested project priority list and ranked the projects. This
countywide list will be submitted to NCDOT for scoring and potential funding.
All of the commissioners indicated that they will attend the Christmas tree
lighting and then ride the float in the parade on December 3 rd . Mr. Robinson
reported on the filter membrane system at the water plant and the need for the
pre-treatment basin. He indicated that he is going to take a look at the
utility rate structure and the tax rate as well as other sources of funding.
The board discussed looking at other water system options.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   The board discussed leasing/selling the old rescue building to be used as
a food pantry. Mr. Robinson reported that Mr. Gill is working on the deed to
transfer ownership of the building to the town and if necessary, he would also
do a lease agreement to protect the town. It was agreed that the food pantry
people should meet with the town manager and then meet with the inspectors at
the building.
B.   The board approved authorizing the Resolution regarding the designation of
an official to make recommendations to the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission on ABC permit applications, following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C.   The board agreed to keep the December 17, 2013 board meeting date as
scheduled.
D.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier, the board appointed Nancy Secura to the Appearance
Committee for a term to expire June 30, 2014. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   The board discussed placing the list of U.S. Open Opportunities in The
Pilot, the town newsletter and on the website. Roland Gilliam stated that his
RV Park was sold out for the tournaments.
F.    The board approved the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale of the items from the old Carthage Rescue Building to be sold
on GOVDEALS.com, private sale or discarded as trash if it is determined to have
no value with the addition of the wording private sale as determined by statute
and Chief Brian Tyner will determine the item has no value, following a motion
made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried. Commissioner Dowdy requested that the board be informed as to
how much money was made on the sale of any surplus items.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley, the board approved the Ordinance to Amend the Town of Carthage
Code of Ordinances – Mural Regulations. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Mr. Paul Davis reported that the committee hoped that the application for the
old buggy building to be placed on the National Registry would be submitted in
January; Carthage Elementary school fifth graders made ornaments for the
Christmas trees at the museum and would be decorating them next Monday for the
Open House on December 1 st . Mr. Paul Davis also briefly discussed getting
volunteers to help paint the Tyson kitchen. Town Clerk Karen O’Hara reported
that Ms. Nancy McKenzie was ill and unable to attend the meeting, but the
Appearance Committee wanted the board to know that they already had sixteen
business owners/property owners who had agreed to purchase wreaths for their
buildings to decorate for Christmas since the holly trees were gone.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Motz-Frazier had nice words to say about the Mayor, Mayor Pro-Tem
and all of the Commissioners and Department Heads. She expressed that she had
enjoyed her time on the board, had learned a lot and hoped to stay involved
with the Town by helping with the newsletter and public relations. Commissioner
Dowdy commended the departments and thanked Commissioner Motz-Frazier for all
she had contributed to the board. Commissioner Barber commented on the fire
department’s 100 th anniversary celebration and stated that he appreciated what
Commissioner Motz-Frazier had done for the town. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated
that the board was a great group of people and that Commissioner Motz-Frazier
meant so much to the group. Commissioner Graham remarked that Commissioner
Motz-Frazier had given a gracious speech and she would be a great help with the
newsletter and public relations. Mayor McGraw thanked everyone.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 8:09 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) to consider the qualifications, competence, performance,
condition of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer or
employee following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.  The board returned to regular
session at 8:27 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.  No action was
taken. 
Upon returning to open session, the board approved having Town Attorney Doug
Gill work with Interim Manager Tom Robinson to draft a contract to hire Mr.
Robinson as Manager to be evaluated in June 2014 following a motion made by
Commissioner Motz-Frazier and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
DECEMBER 17, 2013
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 17, 2013
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, December 17, 2013 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Pat Motz-Frazier. A full
board.
Others present were Interim Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Distinguished guests present were Susan Hicks, Clerk of Superior Court;
Commissioner Elect Jimmy Chalflinch and his son Caleb, Pat Corso, Partners in
Progress; Caleb Miles, Convention and Visitors Bureau; Former Mayor Tom
Stewart, Elizabeth Williams, Historical Committee member Paul Davis and
concerned citizen John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Motz-Frazier gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
 None
The Mayor announced that Item F from New Business will be deleted from the
agenda.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following item, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Motz-Frazier. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting November 12, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 19, 2013
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session November 19, 2013
D.   Budget Amendment #9
Mayor McGraw presented a gift to Commissioner Motz-Frazier and thanked her for
her service to the Town.
OATHS OF OFFICE: Clerk of Court Susan Hicks administered the oath of office to
recently re-elected Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Arthur R. Barber, Jr.
and Commissioner Elect Jimmy Chalflinch.
RECEPTION: The board recessed for a reception at 6:40 p.m.
RESUME REGULAR MEETING: The board resumed the regular meeting at 6:56 p.m.
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
Pat Corso and Caleb Miles presented their New Integrated Approach for Economic
Development project. A copy of their handout is attached to these minutes and
incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Corso applauded the Town and the Mural
Committee for their plan to paint murals in the downtown area and proposed that
this new project would be a perfect way to let people know about the murals.
Their program is being designed to help all areas of Moore County and to target
traditional retirees, returnees, relocates and outsiders. Mr. Miles summarized
the handout and indicated they have a budget to cover an 18 month period. Mr.
Corso reported that they have already received pledges, $20,000 from the County
and $10,000 from the Village of Pinehurst. They will be making this
presentation to all the municipalities in Moore County and are requesting a
donation of $3,000 from the Town of Carthage. Mayor McGraw thanked Mr. Corso
and Mr. Miles for coming and indicated that the board would discuss this
request and vote on it at their meeting in January.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Interim Town
Manager Tom Robinson reported that they had a good second meeting with the
Buggy Drive residents but still need to consider some points raised at the
meeting. The board agreed that something needs to be done to fix this problem.
Mr. Robinson informed the board that the Town would be switching all cell phone
service to Verizon for better coverage and a small savings each month. Mr.
Robinson discussed some budget analysis that he would like to do prior to the
first budget workshop, which would probably be in March. Budget amendments were
explained. Mr. Robinson discussed the DOT repaving and indicated that he would
follow up with DOT about including the widening of Monroe Street. Mr. Robinson
addressed the code enforcement issue and reported that he has a private
contractor working on a proposal for the Town to consider. There was some
discussion on the water plant issues, with the board agreeing that the problems
with the plant need to be fixed.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, the board agreed to appoint Jean Riley as Mayor Pro-Tem. All ayes.
Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley, the board agreed to appropriate $120,000 from the General Fund
balance and then transfer this money to the Enterprise Fund budget to cover the
$120,000 emergency water treatment plant filter expense as well as approve
retroactively the purchase of the 96 filters. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   After some discussion, the board agreed to table the LED streetlight
upgrade until Duke Energy Progress can install some sample LED lights in the
McDonald Building parking lot for the Board and the citizens to see.
D.   The board reappointed Commissioner Barber as the Town of Carthage delegate
for the Triangle J Council of Governments, following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E.   The board reappointed Commissioner Dowdy as the Town of Carthage alternate
delegate for the Triangle J Council of Governments, following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner Graham.  All ayes. Motion
carried.
F.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley, the board approved ratifying the manager’s prior signing of the
construction contract with Sandhills Contractors and approved the amendment of
the engineering agreement with Hobbs Upchurch and Associates by increasing the
fee for services by $2,650.00 as indicated on the contract amendment document.
All ayes. Motion carried.
G.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing the
Clerk to Investigate for ANX-05-13, Randy & Joan Hill Request for Non-
Contiguous Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency
for ANX-05-13, Randy & Joan Hill. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the Date of
the Public Hearing for ANX-05-13, Randy & Joan Hill for Tuesday, January 21,
2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis reported that the Carthage Elementary School students decorated the
Christmas trees at the museum and that the committee hopes to submit the
request to the National Historic Registry for the old buggy building in
January. Mr. Davis stated that the old buggy building is declining quickly. The
Appearance Committee did not meet in December.
There was a brief two minute recess.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley stated that the new sidewalks look great and that she heard
that the parade was wonderful. Commissioner Barber reported that the Fire
Department function was great and he would like to get copies of some of the
pictures. He thanked the board for the Triangle J nomination and reported on
some current programs the group is working on. Mr. Barber agreed that it was a
wonderful parade with plenty of candy. Commissioner Dowdy thanked all the
departments for a wonderful job and wished everyone a Merry Christmas and Happy
New Year. Commissioner Graham also wished everyone Happy Holidays and
congratulated our new commissioner. Commissioner Chalflinch thanked everyone
and stated that he is looking forward to working with everyone for the next
four years. Mayor McGraw commented that he has heard compliments of good things
going on in town and he thanked everyone, as well as thanking John Chappell for
attending the meeting. John Chappell complimented the Mayor on his speech at
Mr. Lee’s funeral.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 8:32 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) to consider the qualifications, competence, performance,
condition of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer or
employee and N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (5) to establish or instruct the staff or
agent concerning the negotiation of the price and terms of a contract
concerning the acquisition of real property following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes.
Motion carried.  The board returned to regular session at 8:59 p.m. following a
motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes. Motion carried.  No action was taken. 
Upon returning to open session, the board approved the contract between the
Manager and the Town as presented, following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
2014 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 21, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 21, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, January 21, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Others present were Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews,
Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Carthage Food Pantry representatives Reverend Mattheue
Locklear, Henry Callahan, Andy Scherer and Andrew Geherer; Historical Committee
member Paul Davis and concerned citizens George and Carolyn Carey, Randy and
Jean Hill, Annette McGraw and Pat Motz-Frazier.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
The Mayor announced that Cheryl Collins, NCDOT would not be present during
Public Appearances due to the inclement weather and Item C under New Business
would be tabled pending further information.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting December 17, 2013
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session December 17, 2013
C.   Budget Amendments #16, #17, #18, #20, #22
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
Reverend Mattheue Locklear informed the board that the food pantry had
submitted their application to become a 501(c)(3) corporation named the
Carthage Food Pantry. Reverend Locklear stated that it would take approximately
three months to process and the organization is requesting approval to get into
the building prior to receiving the designation so that they can work on the
improvements that need to be made. The group emphasized that they would like to
have the town, other citizen’s, churches, organizations and businesses
participate in the pantry, either financially or helping to distribute food.
Commissioner Dowdy questioned Chief Davis about the traffic due to the lack of
parking at the old rescue building and the Food Pantry representatives assured
the board that they were going to address this issue prior to opening the
pantry at this location. Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch, as
amended by Commissioner Graham, and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley the board
approved the Carthage Food Pantry temporarily using the old rescue building,
until a regular lease is signed, for a period of time up to and including the
15th of July, with the Food Pantry being responsible for the cost of the
utilities. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing, on the request from Randy & Joan
Hill for the non-contiguous annexation of their property located at 420 and 450
Union Church Road, at 6:57 p.m. Mr. Hill explained that he and his wife are
going to build a house on one of the pieces of property and are requesting
annexation of both pieces so that they can have town water. Mr. Hill showed the
board a drawing of their proposed house. Mr. and Mrs. Carey explained that they
are neighbors of this property and they were at the meeting because they did
not know what non-contiguous meant. Ms. O’Hara explained the definition of non-
contiguous and the Carey’s had no further questions. Mayor McGraw closed the
Public Hearing at 7:05 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Barber, the board adopted the Ordinance to Extend the
Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage for Randy & Joan Hill. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Mr. Hill explained that they have sold their house in Sanford and would like to
request that the board allow them to live in a camper on this property while
they are building their house. The board agreed to allow Randy and Joan Hill to
live in a camper on the property located at 420 and 450 Union Church Road for
up to six months while their house is being built, following a motion made by
Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. In Town Manager
Tom Robinson’s absence, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara answered questions concerning
the code enforcement proposal and Commissioner Dowdy requested that the Town
obtain additional bids for comparison. Ms. O’Hara stated that we had not heard
any new information from Little River about the purchase offers they were
supposed to have received. Fire Chief Brian Tyner explained the grant they had
received and the fact that the Town had to provide matching funds.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board agreed to amend Article IV, Section 3b of the
Town of Carthage Personnel Policy to read: b) When an employee is promoted, he
or she shall receive an increase to the minimum rate of the new pay range. If
the employee is already making above the minimum of the new range, he or she
shall receive a 3.5% pay increase. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board approved issuing a check in the amount of $5,000
to the Mural Committee on behalf of The Donald and Elizabeth Cooke Foundation.
All ayes. Motion carried. Commissioner Graham reported that the Mural Committee
had signed a lease to start the first mural in June and requested that the Town
issue a check for the $10,000 it had agreed to give the Mural Committee.
C.   The board agreed to table the computer upgrades pending more information.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   The board approved participating in the Moore Opportunity Marketing
Campaign by providing a one time contribution of $2,000 with funds to cover
this expenditure coming form the Manager’s salary line item, following a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes.
Motion carried.
The board took a two minute recess to view the LED light installed beside the
Community Building.
B.   Following a brief discussion, the board approved the change to LED
streetlights and further approved appropriating $9,250 from the General Fund
Balance to cover this expense, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham
and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis summarized the Historical Committee minutes and reported on the
application submitted to have the old buggy building accepted for placement on
the Historical Registry. Ms. Pat Motz-Frazier reported that she is working on
articles for the newsletter.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber reported that he has a Triangle J meeting this week and
they hope to get their newsletter out soon. Commissioner Graham requested that
Chief Davis introduce the department’s new officers to the board. Commissioner
Dowdy commented that the Appearance Committee is doing a good job and streets
are looking good. Commissioner Chalflinch thanked the police and fire
departments for their handling of the head on collision that happened by his
house. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley agreed with Commissioner Dowdy that everything looks
good. Mayor McGraw thanked everyone and stated that the issue with the grave
had been taken care of.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:38 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 18, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 18, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, February 18, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Others present were Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews,
Police Chief Bart Davis and Public Works Director Rocky Davis.
Also present were Carthage resident, Pat Brown; Scott Walston and Rob Stone,
NCDOT; Chris Goodwin, Davenport Lawrence; Historical Committee member Paul
Davis and concerned citizens Pat Motz-Frazier and John Chappell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, the board approved adding the acknowledgement of Black History Month to
the agenda under Public Appearance. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 21, 2014
B.   Budget Amendments #14, #24, #25, #26
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Ms. Pat Brown thanked the Mayor for the opportunity to speak in
recognition of Black History Month. Ms. Brown praised Randy Sheppard, Director
of the Martin Luther King Children’s Choir, Moore County branch. She commended
Mr. Sheppard’s concern for the total child, not just his/her singing. The choir
just produced their first CD and Ms. Brown is glad that these children are in
church and not out on the streets. Mayor McGraw read a Proclamation, which is
attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference, and thanked Ms.
Brown.
B.   Scott Walston thanked the board for allowing him to give his presentation
and introduced his colleague Rob Stone. Mr. Walston stated that he was there to
get board approval for the socioeconomic data that the Town provided and DOT
has compiled, a copy of this presentation is attached to these minutes and
incorporated herein by reference.. This data will be used, along with the data
from the other Moore County municipalities, to categorize future transportation
needs and develop a Comprehensive Transportation Plan. Mr. Walston asked the
board to review the data and if it is wrong, please let him know. He would like
board approval by March or April. Commissioner Barber asked Mr. Stone if DOT
would be able to plant shrubs in front of their facilities on NC 24-27 coming
into town so that it would hide all the trucks and equipment. Mr. Stone told
Commissioner Barber to contact him and they could talk about it.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING: 
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reported that he and Rocky had their regular meeting on the sewer
project today and they are approximately three weeks behind schedule due to the
weather. Forest Ridge has reduced the number of houses for the initial part of
Phase 3 and had requested approval from the board for the final plat. Since
there are still improvements to be completed, Mr. Robinson did not bring that
request before the board tonight. He has been working on the budget with Ms.
Matthews and is glad to be back at work. Commissioner Barber requested that Mr.
Robinson check into possible reductions on the cost of the LED lights that Duke
Progress Energy may be offering.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the board set March 18, 2014 as the date for the Public
Hearing to consider amending the Table of Dimensional Standards to change the
required minimum lot size from 15,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet for the
Airport Zoning District. All ayes. Motion carried. Mr. Robinson informed the
board that he would look at the subdivision ordinance in relation to this
property.
B.   Following some discussion concerning bankruptcy and limiting the
improvement guarantee to the posting of bonds, the board set March 18, 2014 as
the date for the Public Hearing to consider amending Division II, Article 9,
Section 100.65, D.7 to allow the approval of final subdivision plats by posting
of bonds to guarantee completion of required improvements, following a motion
made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. Commissioner
Graham requested that the Manager check on the process required to get the
money from the bonding agency if the contractor is in default, as well as to
have the Town Attorney check with a bankruptcy attorney on the question of what
happens if the contractor goes bankrupt.
C.   The consensus of the board was that they would like to have two workshops,
one for long range planning and one for the budget. The board agreed to
schedule the long range planning workshop for Saturday, March 22, starting at
8:00 or 9:00 a.m. Mr. Robinson will check with the facilitator on start time
and agenda. The board will set the budget workshop at a later date.
D.   Mr. Robinson explained that we had solicited five proposals for the
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) and had received three responses. The first one
was from Hobbs Upchurch who has historically done excellent work, but has
recently lost their capabilities. The strongest proposal was from McGill
Associates who has done limited work for the Town in the past. The third one
was from the newest firm, LKC. Bill Lester is the owner of this firm and did
most of the work for Carthage when he was employed with Hobbs Upchurch. Due to
Mr. Lester’s familiarity with the town, Mr. Robinson and Commissioner Dowdy
recommended going with LKC for the CIP and considering other firms in the
future. Both gentlemen agreed that it was a difficult decision that was based
on the proposals submitted, references, conversation and research. Following a
motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the
board agreed to choose LKC for the Capital Improvement Project. Four ayes and
one nay (Mayor Pro-Tem Riley). Motion carried. 
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
Following a brief discussion, the board approved the Town’s computer/network
update at the proposed quote of $28,311.80, plus the estimated shipping cost of
$472.92 and the maximum labor cap of $4,080.00, and that a budget amendment be
approved to appropriate the necessary funds from the General Fund Balance to
cover this expense. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis stated that he had nothing much to add to the Historical Committee
minutes. The board reviewed the minutes from the Planning Board and the
Appearance Committee.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy reported that the Essentials of Municipal Government class
was very educational. They handed out a Handbook for NC Mayors and Council
Members that he suggests all of the Commissioners should have. Commissioner
Graham thanked Public Works Director Rocky Davis and Police Chief Bart Davis
for their work during the storm. The board agreed that the Town should not rent
out the other half of the building on meeting nights due to the noise level
with two groups in the building at the same time. Commissioner Barber agreed
with Commissioner Dowdy about the class and reported that all three
commissioners had gotten scholarships to attend. He stated that Public Works,
Police and Fire departments had done a wonderful job during the snow storm.
Mayor McGraw thanked everyone for a good job.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION
A.   The board moved into closed session at 8:20 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) (6) to consider the qualifications, competence, performance,
condition of appointment of a public officer or prospective public officer or
employee following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.  The board returned to regular session
at 8:54 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.  No action was taken. 
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:55 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 18, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 18, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, March 18, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner and
Public Works Director Rocky Davis.
Also present were Appearance Committee members Nancy McKenzie and Judi Kelly
and Historical Committee members Paul Davis and John McDonald.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, the board approved adding generator discussion to the Agenda under Old
Business. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board approved adding Town Attorney Memorandum of Understanding
to the Agenda under New Business. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, the board approved adding Budget Amendment #31 under the Consent Agenda.
All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 18, 2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session February 18, 2014
C.   Budget Amendments #30, #31
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing, on the request from Roland Gilliam
to amend the required minimum lot size from 15,000 square feet to 10,000 square
feet in the Table of Dimensional Standards for the Airport Zoning District, at
6:32 p.m. There was no one present to speak on this issue. Mayor McGraw closed
the Public Hearing at 6:33 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham
and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the board approved amending the Town of
Carthage Development Ordinance Table of Dimensional Standards changing the
required minimum lot size from 15,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet in the
Airport Zoning District.. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing, on the Amendment of the
Subdivision Standards of the Town of Carthage Development Ordinance, at 6:34
p.m. There was no one present to speak on this issue. Mayor McGraw closed the
Public Hearing at 6:35 p.m. The board approved amending Division II, Article 9,
Section 100.65, D.7 to allow the approval of final subdivision plats by posting
of bonds or letter of credit to guarantee completion of required improvements
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reported that the sewer project is going well and that he and Public
Works Director Rocky Davis met with Little River today to discuss possible
construction plans with a potential new owner. The board was in agreement that
all upgrades needed to be completed and that guarantees of completion should be
obtained for any potential projects at Little River. Mr. Robinson reiterated
that the State is very concerned about the water plant and what action the town
is taking to evaluate the situation and move forward to correct the problems.
Mr. Robinson reported that the Fire Department fire engine problems weren’t as
bad as originally anticipated and congratulated Mr. Davis on being able to get
the insurance company to cover approximately $25,000 of the cost to fix the
Little River pump station. Mr. Robinson thanked the Appearance Committee and
Public Works Department for all their hard work downtown and advised that it
would cost approximately $7,500 to fix the clock. The board agreed to set April
22 at 1:00 p.m. for a budget workshop.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved the part time Town Manager job
position as presented.
B.   The board approved paying its FY 2013-2014 Partners in Progress dues
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board declined the offer as extended in the February 7 letter from
American Tower Corporation following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Town Manager Tom Robinson reported to the board that Town Attorney Doug
Gill had informed the town that he was retiring effective immediately. Mr.
Robinson advised that we had polled some other law firms that represent
municipalities and the only one interested in the position was The Brough Law
Firm. Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved execution of the Memorandum of
Understanding with The Brough Law Firm. All ayes. Motion carried. Following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch the
board approved the Brough Law Firm not attending all monthly Board of
Commissioner meetings, only those upon request, as well as the Town being
charged hourly for the Law Firm to attend Board meetings. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E.   The board accepted the Contract to Audit Accounts for the Town of Carthage
from Martin Starnes & Associates, CPAs, P.A. for the year ended June 30, 2014
following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley, the board adopted the Resolution Adoption of 2030 and 2040
Population, Employment and Development Projections. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   After much discussion concerning generators, the consensus of the board
was that they wanted stationary generators, not portable, and Mr. Robinson
stated that he would get some updated quotes.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis reviewed the minutes from the Historical Committee meeting and John
McDonald thanked Public Works Director Rocky Davis for the good job he and his
crew did on the streets during the recent storms. Nancy McKenzie thanked Mr.
Rocky Davis for the work he and his men have done on the planters and informed
the board that Sharon from Possum Run would be planting on April 15. She also
thanked the Fire Department for taking over the watering of the plants.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley thanked the Appearance Committee and complimented everyone
for working together. Commissioner Dowdy reported a citizen’s concern about
dirt washing down the hill behind Sunset Drive into the creek. Commissioner
Graham also thanked the Appearance Committee and requested that the board do a
resolution for Gladys Marion. Commissioner Barber remarked on a number of
vehicles parked without tags, county employees not parking in their lots and
the requirements for obtaining a building permit from the county. Mayor McGraw
remarked how everyone, including commissioners, volunteers and staff want to do
the right thing.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:16 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 22, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
STRATEGIC PLANNING RETREAT
MARCH 22, 2014
9:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Strategic
Planning Retreat on Saturday, March 22, 2014 at 9:00 a.m. at the McDonald
Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Others present were Facilitator David Long, Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss strategic planning for the Town.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
II.   
Mayor McGraw welcomed Facilitator Mr. David Long and Town Manager Tom Robinson
introduced and gave some background information on Mr. Long. The board and
staff introduced themselves. Mr. Robinson stated that this session was being
held in order to plan ahead and come up with a strategic plan that is good for
the town and its citizens. Mr. Robinson presented the State of the Town Report,
a copy of which is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by
reference. Mr. Robinson also pointed out that a one cent tax increase equals
approximately $20,000. Discussion was held concerning the fund balance and the
revaluation in 2015-2016.
The Department Heads presented their ideas on long range planning.
Mr. Long began with a group brainstorming session, then a discussion of high
priority strategic directions and finally a rough draft of a strategic plan. A
copy of the Board of Commissioners Planning Retreat Summary Report is attached
to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
The Commissioners all commented that it was a positive presentation and thanked
Mr. Long for coming. The staff expressed that it was good to know what was
important to the board and felt that the session had brought everyone together
on the same page. Mr. Robinson stated that it was important to know how both
the staff and the board feel on issues.
Police Chief Bart Davis closed the meeting in prayer.
III.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 3:24 p.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 15, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 15, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, April 15, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Commissioner
Catherine Graham was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Administrative Assistant Dina
Tharp, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner and Public Works
Director Rocky Davis.
Also present were new Town Attorney T.C. Morphis, Keith Marion and Mike Allen.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, the board approved adding budget amendment #41 as item D under New
Business. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 18, 2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Planning Retreat March 22, 2014
C.   Budget Amendments #36, #37, #38, #40
Town Manager Tom Robinson introduced Mr. Morphis who then gave a brief
description of his background.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board agreed to recess their regular meeting to reconvene as the
Board of Adjustment at 6:36 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
The Board reconvened their regular meeting at 6:55 p.m.
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reported that he has been very busy and he is working on eliminating
the safety issue created when the new sidewalks were done. Mr. Robinson
indicated that Little River is doing its due diligence and he and Public Works
Director Rocky Davis have been reviewing sewer capacity for this development.
Mr. Robinson introduced Administrative Assistant Dina Tharp, who was sitting in
for Town Clerk Karen O’Hara and informed the board about the good job Ms. Tharp
and Ms. O’Hara are doing on coordinating the Buggy Festival. Mr. Robinson
stated that he and Finance Officer Kesha Matthews are working on the budget for
the workshop. Mr. Robinson reported on the subdivision activity and the need to
clarify the Development Ordinance. Mr. Robinson suggested that the Ordinance be
reviewed and revised as necessary in order to be consistent. The board
discussed ways of informing the public that events, such as the DOT paving on
McNeill and Monroe Streets, are going to be done.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Board adopted the Resolution in Memory and Honor of
Gladys Thomas Marion. All ayes. Motion carried. The Resolution was presented to
Keith Marion, Ms. Gladys Marion’s son.
B.    After some discussion, the Board agreed to set May 20, 2014 as the date
for the Public Hearing to consider amending the Table of Permitted and
Conditional Uses to allow a new hand wash car wash category in the B-2, TBD,
HCD & I zoning districts as a permitted use with special requirements to be
researched by the manager.
C.   After much discussion of the following provisions recommended by the Town
Manager, the board approved the Final Plat for Forest Ridge Subdivision Phase
3A with the conditions specified by the Town Manager and gave the Town Manager
authority to sign it following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Recommended provisions:
1.   The developer provide a proper improvement guarantee of 150% of the
estimated costs of completing the improvements and such guarantee be reviewed
and approved by the Town’s Attorney and Town Manager.
2.   The developer provides a Warrantee Guarantee for a one year period of time
from the date of approval of the subdivision for 10% of the total estimated
costs to develop the subdivision.
D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley, the board approved Budget Amendment #41 to appropriate $44,689.00
from the Fund Balance into the General Fund and the money be appropriated into
the Capital Outlay line item. All ayes. Motion carried. A copy of this Budget
Amendment is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Following a review of the Board of Commissioners Planning Retreat Summary
Report the consensus of the board was to accept this report as written.
B.   After some discussion on downtown parking issues, the board agreed to
discuss this topic again at the budget workshop. Police Chief Davis will be at
that meeting to answer questions and Mr. Robinson will have further information
on costs.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
No committee members were present. Mayor McGraw emphasized how happy he is with
the Appearance Committee and what a great job they are doing. Mr. Robinson
reported that the Planning Board had met to discuss the request for a hand car
wash, as well as the variance for the accessory building. Mr. Robinson informed
the board that he had spoken to the owner of the building where Rowland and
Yauger are located, and he had indicated that the broken awning, being held up
with a 2’ x 4’, should be fixed this week.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy made a reference to downtown Carthage looking like Rainbow
Row in Charleston and inquired about the repaving of driveways that have been
dug up due to the construction on McNeill Street. Mr. Robinson pointed out that
Sharon from Possum Run will be planting flowers in the planters’ downtown on
Friday. Commissioner Barber inquired about the status of the fire hydrants on
Hwy 22 behind Little River.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
 Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION:
A.   The board moved into closed session at 7:50 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (3) to consult with our attorney to preserve the attorney-client
privilege to discuss the pending litigation in Quality Build Homes, Inc. vs.
Town of Carthage, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded
by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular
session at 8:10 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:11 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
1:00 P.M.
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
APRIL 22, 2014
1:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Tuesday, April 22, 2014 at 1:00 p.m. in the Fire Department at the
W.C. Walton Municipal Building (Town Hall).
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2014/2015
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   
Town Manager Tom Robinson stated that this was his first time doing the budget
for the Town and Finance Officer Kesha Matthews is still learning but they have
been working with the Department Heads in anticipation of this meeting. Mr.
Robinson reviewed highlights of the revenues and expenditures and indicated
that at the end of the day he will need direction from the board on where to go
from here. Mr. Robinson presented a summary of the Town finances and outlined
the recommended levels of where the Fund Balance should be. Mr. Robinson stated
that the Fund Balance is currently out of balance by approximately $100,000 and
the board discussed options to balance the budget, including a possible
property tax increase. Discussion was held concerning the Utilities Fund
Budget, including the increase of the amount Republic is charging for trash
pickup as well as the sewer increase from the County. Mr. Robinson handed out a
sheet with the Average Daily Sewer Flow, which is attached to these minutes and
incorporated herein by reference. This fund is currently out of balance
$145,587 and the board reviewed options to balance the budget including a
utility rate increase. Mr. Robinson summarized each department’s overall budget
requests.
V.   POLICE DEPARMENT:
Police Chief Bart Davis reported that there is no change to his budget; he has
made adjustments within the budget. There are a few capital improvements that
need to be made, such as upgrades to the restroom and some of the office
carpeting. There was much discussion on different information systems that are
available to keep the citizens informed. The consensus of the board was that
money should be budgeting for a system and the manager will form a committee to
assess and evaluate the different systems.
VI.   FIRE DEPARTMENT:  
Fire Chief Brian Tyner informed the board that his budget is essentially the
same as it has been for the past few years, with the exception of needing a
little bit more due to increased calls and rising fuel costs. The Chief
remarked that the red Explorer is becoming undependable and will have to be
replaced with a larger vehicle since he is now required to carry more equipment
on a regular basis. Chief Tyner reported that having 24 hour coverage has
enabled the department to respond quicker. Chief Tyner described the
adjustments the department has made due to the SAFER grant issue.
VII.     PUBLIC WORKS:
Public Works Director Rocky Davis reported that he has readjusted money in his
budget to cover such items as building repairs, increased fuel and supply
costs. Mr. Davis informed the board that he has started switching to high
intensity street signs in order to comply with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD) retro reflectivity standards. Mr. Davis indicated that
his overall budget is down due to certain one-time expenses.
VIII.   
The board agreed to hold another budget workshop on Tuesday, May 20, 2014 at 5:
30 p.m. prior to the regular scheduled Board of Commissioners meeting. Chief
Tyner gave the closing prayer.
IX.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 4:25 p.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 20, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 20, 2014
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Tuesday, May 20, 2014 at 5:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2014/2015
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   
Town Manager Tom Robinson stated that he had met with each of the Commissioners
and was now looking for direction as to how to proceed with the budget. Mr.
Robinson reviewed the list of cuts he had proposed and stated that he was
looking for a consensus from the board on whether to add anything back into the
budget. Mr. Robinson added that he had had a conversation with Fred Hobbs and
Mr. Hobbs encouraged the Town to pursue trying to get the money for the grant
repayment from Blaine East, but Mr. Hobbs felt that if we were not able to get
it from Mr. East, our State Representatives would work with us to get repayment
from the Town waived. After much discussion, the consensus of the Board was
that they would add back to the budget the savings from the Town Manager salary
(try not to use it) and the COLA increase for employees; increase water, sewer
and trash rates, charge employees for half of the cost of the 15% insurance
increase, but not implement a tax increase. The board set June 17, 2014 as the
date for the Public Hearing for the 2014/2015 budget.
IV.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:23 p.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 20, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 20, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, April 15, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Others present were Century Committee/Mural Committee members Mark Fry, Tommy
Phillips, Billie Mackey, Archie Kelly and others; Appearance Committee members
Nancy McKenzie, Judi Kelly, Nancy Secura and George Wilson; Historical
Committee members John McDonald and Paul Davis; Bradley Ritter, Roland Gilliam,
Thomas Rixus, Liz Jones and Robert Coleman
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Graham led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board approved adding Petition Requesting a Non-Contiguous
Annexation for Gary and Sharon Robinson to the Agenda under New Business. All
ayes. Motion carried.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Thomas Rixus, Liz Jones and Robert Coleman requested to speak about the
flooding and pot holes on a public road. Initially Mr. Robinson stated that he
would be happy to set up an appointment with them to discuss the situation
until it was realized that the road they were referring to was Grady W Lane
which is outside of the town limits. The citizens were directed to the County
Commissioner meeting at the Courthouse.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 15, 2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session April 15, 2014
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Budget Workshop April 22,
2014
D.   Budget Amendments #42, #43
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
Mark Fry, Chair of the Mural Committee introduced the members of the Century
Committee and the Mural Committee who were in the audience. Mr. Fry explained
the process the Mural Committee has been going through and stated they now had
three finalists. He gave the background of the three artists and showed the
drawings that they had submitted. Mr. Fry indicated that the committee would be
interviewing the artists in June. Billie Mackey asked for the board’s approval
of the committee’s choice of the Tyson & Jones Company for their first mural.
The consensus of the board was approval of the Tyson & Jones Company theme for
the first mural.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the Request from Bradley Ritter
to Amend the Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses at 6:52 p.m. Mr. Ritter
answered several questions from the Commissioners. There was no one else
present to speak concerning the request. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing
at 6:59 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Riley, the board approved amending the Table of Permitted and
Conditional Uses to allow a new Hand Wash Car Wash category in the B-2, TBD,
HCD & I zoning districts as a Permitted Use with the following Special
Requirements:
SR 38.   Hand Wash Car Wash
A.   Hours of operation shall be confined to daylight hours.
B.   Illumination shall be designed to minimize lighting exposure to any
adjoining residentially zoned areas.
C.   Business will not operate on Sunday.
All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reviewed his report and added that he is going to look into
quantifying the amount of debris that the town will pick up from individual
residences and will make a recommendation to the board. He also stated that he
is working with our water provider and engineer to bring the water into
compliance. The town needs to respond to DENR with specific actions and dates
by June 20. Mr. Robinson will present the proposal to the board at the June
meeting. He will also work on calculation of the debt service payment.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   The board agreed to give authorization to the Town Manager to approve the
Site Plan for Coastal Agrobusiness once the Planning Board has reviewed the
proposed changes to the site following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and
seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Directing the Clerk
to Investigate for ANX-01-14, Gary & Sharon Robinson Request for Non-Contiguous
Annexation. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Riley, the board voted to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency for
ANX-01-14, Gary & Sharon Robinson. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board voted to adopt the Resolution Fixing the Date of the Public
Hearing for ANX-01-14, Gary & Sharon Robinson for Tuesday, June 17, 2014 at 6:
30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   After much discussion the board approved making the following changes to
the Rescue Building lease: the Food Pantry would be responsible for mechanical/
routine maintenance and taxes, the rental amount would be $1.00 per year, the
Town would be responsible for structural maintenance and the Food Pantry would
become a 501(c) not related to a church or religious organization following a
motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Chief Davis spoke concerning downtown parking and the lack of proper
signage which is confusing to the citizens as well as the officers. According
to the Attorney General, signage needs to be adequate to see when pulling into
a space. Chief Davis discussed talking to the County Manager about County
employees parking downtown but indicated that we needed to have the proper
signage first. The Chief also proposed the option of placing meters in certain
areas of the downtown.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Nancy McKenzie summarized the projects and progress the committee has made and
thanked Mr. Robinson and Public Works Director Rocky Davis for all of their
help and support. Fundraising options, as well as the $300 raised at the Buggy
Festival, were discussed and the committee requested that the Town renew their
allocated budget amount for the upcoming fiscal year. Judi Kelly thanked the
Fire Department and everyone else involved. Commissioner Graham requested a
letter be sent from the board thanking Sharon from Possum Run and Nancy’s
McKenzie’s friend for their donation of time and the water tank, respectively.
John McDonald reported that the Historical Committee was not as successful as
the Appearance Committee at the festival and that the Buggy building has been
approved for the next step in application for the National Registry. Mr.
McDonald informed the board that he and Paul Davis had been selected by the
committee to serve as Co-Chairs. Mr. McDonald thanked the board and Public
Works Director for all of their support. Mayor McGraw approached Mr. McDonald
about the possibility of the Historical Committee relocating the museum to the
rock building, He also stated that the Historical Committee used to raise quite
a bit of money through fundraisers. Mr. McDonald agreed to take the relocation
suggestion to the committee, which would also include moving the Tyson kitchen.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Graham thanked Mr. Robinson and Ms. Matthews for their work on the
budget and thanked the Appearance Committee, Chuck Watson and Rick Fleming for
their work uptown. Commissioner Dowdy thanked Ms. O’Hara for her work on the
Buggy Festival. Mayor Pro-Tem Riley agreed with everyone and thanked those
attending the meeting. Mayor McGraw thanked everyone again and asked Mr.
Gilliam about the bricks he is selling to raise money for the museum at the
airport. Mr. Gilliam reported that he had received 501(c) approval.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:59 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 11, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
JUNE 11, 2014
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Tuesday, June 11, 2014 at 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Department at the
Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Others present were Bill Lester and Mark Lacey from LKC engineering.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2014/2015
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   
Town Manager Tom Robinson apologized for not having the Enterprise Budget ready
before now, but he stated that it was a lot of work and not a pretty picture.
Mr. Robinson discussed the Enterprise Budget deficit and the date specific
information that DENR was requiring on the improvements to the water plant.
There was much discussion concerning the pretreatment basin, new clear well,
12” water main out Union Church Road, Pinecrest Lift Station, Cockman’s Pump
Station and Buggy Drive sewer. Mr. Robinson stated that the USDA has loan and
grant money available so we need to look at fixing these situations at this
time and applying for some of these funds. The board reviewed the proposed
water and sewer rate increases and Mr. Robinson pointed out that there would be
less of an increase for lower usage users than for the higher water users in
Town. The board was adamant that this information be explained to the public
prior to raising the rates. The board members voted 5-0 in favor of the water/
sewer rate increase and implementing it all at one time, as well as addressing
all of the capital improvement projects discussed with this rate increase.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board approved the USDA PER & WTP Pretreatment System Project
Schedule. All ayes. Motion carried. Mr. Lester stated that the Town should know
about the USDA grant/loan by January or February.
The board discussed the revenues and expenditures of the Enterprise Budget.
Public Works Director Rocky Davis stated that the only increase was the
increased sewer cost to the County. He moved some other items around but it is
pretty much the same as last year. Mr. Robinson passed out a water & sewer
usage table, a copy which is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein
by reference. Increased sewer usage amounts were discussed and it was
recommended that approximately $50,000 be allocated for a study to figure out
where the infiltration is coming from. The board agreed with the presented
Enterprise Fund.
The board took a short break.
Police Chief Bart Davis reported on changes to the COPS grant and stated that
he is working on the application. Fire Chief Brian Tyner described the
condition of his vehicle and discussed the cost and financing of a new one.
Much discussion was held concerning raising taxes and how it would affect the
lower income and senior citizens. Mr. Robertson explained that is not uncommon
for the tax rate to fluctuate over a period of time, going up and down with
economic changes, which the Town’s has not. It was pointed out that on a
$60,000 home the increase would be $30.00 per year or $2.50 per month. Ms.
Matthews stated that the water/sewer increase based on 5,000 gallons would be
$17.20 a month, with the total for both being $236.40 a year or $19.70 per
month.
It was agreed that at least one Town meeting should be scheduled to educate the
citizens on these potential changes, even if it means postponing adoption of
the FY 2014-2015 budget. The board agreed to put the Police Officer position
and the Fire Department vehicle back into the budget.
IV.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Riley and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:37 p.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 17, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 17, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, June 17, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine
Graham, Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley
was absent.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Appearance Committee member Nancy McKenzie, Gilliam McConnell
Airport owner Roland Gilliam and two concerned citizens.
I.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
II.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Budget Workshop May 20,
2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 20, 2014
C.   Write off 2009 Delinquent Water Accounts
D.   Budget Amendments #50, #51, #52
III.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
None
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the Request from Gary and Sharon
Robinson for non-contiguous annexation for their property located at 5500 Hwy
22 at 6:36 p.m. There was no one present to speak concerning this request.
Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:37 p.m. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved
adopting the Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the Town of Carthage
for Gary and Sharon Robinson. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing on the FY 2014-2015 proposed Budget
at 6:38 p.m. Town Manager Tom Robinson presented highlights of the budget and
there was much discussion on the proposed increases in utility rates and taxes.
There was no one present to speak on this issue. The board agreed to schedule a
Special Meeting for Thursday, June 26 at 6:30 p.m., after the June 24 Town
Information Meeting, to consider voting on the proposed budget. Mayor McGraw
closed the Public Hearing at 7:09 p.m.
V.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report and reported that Martin Street had been mowed and that
some of the businesses were putting merchandise on the sidewalks again. Mr.
Robinson indicated that he was looking at limiting the amount of yard debris
that the Town would pick up and there was some discussion concerning state and
town owned streets.
VI.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   The board approved reappointing Mark Fry to the Carthage Planning Board
for a three year term following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board approved reappointing Carol Steed, Kay Davis, Helen Mohan,
Antoniette Kelly and Bert Patrick to the Historical Committee for a three year
term to expire June 2017. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board approved reappointing Nancy Secura and Doris Fite to the
Appearance Committee for a three year term to expire June 2017 following a
motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All
ayes. Motion carried.
D.   After a brief discussion, the board approved amending the audit contract
to include a single audit at an additional cost of $1,500.00 to be added to the
budget, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   After a brief discussion, the board agreed to the wording in the lease
contract as presented and requested that the contract be sent to Reverend
Locklear with a letter indicating that if the terms of the lease are not
satisfied then the pantry will be asked to vacate the premises.
VIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Nancy McKenzie summarized the Appearance Committee minutes and discussed the
painting of the Maconaghie Building. She thanked the Fire Department and the
Commissioners.
IX.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Chalflinch congratulated Mr. Gilliam on the segment that Channel 8
did on the airport and Pik-n-Pig and also stated that the flowers downtown look
great. Commissioner Dowdy indicated that everything had been covered.
Commissioner Graham remarked that it was good to see citizens attending the
meeting. Mayor McGraw indicated a desire to have the Town Board attend the
County Commissioner meeting when Catherine Graham is sworn in as a County
Commissioner. Commissioner Graham indicated that would make her proud.
Commissioner Barber stated that he appreciated the watering and thanked Police
Chief Davis and Public Works Director Rocky Davis. Mr. Gilliam remarked about
the full parking lots in Town that are due to the County Commissioner meeting.
X.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:37 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
___________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 26, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JUNE 26, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Thursday,
June 26, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley, Commissioners Milton
T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine Graham, Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full
board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Director
of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, Lieutenant Robbie Mabe
and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Bill Lester, LKC Engineering; Brian Harbour, Juanita Harbour
and Roy Harbour, Carthage Laundromat; concerned citizens Johnny Smith, Patty
Kempton, Annette McGraw and Tom Lamkin.
I.   CALL TO ORDR:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
  Mayor Pro-Tem Riley led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   NEW BUSINESS:
A.     Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved Budget Amendments #54, #55 and #56. All
ayes. Motion carried.
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Brian Harbour reiterated that this water/sewer increase would
put them out of business but stated that the proposed 2/3 increase would be
better. He suggested interconnectivity with the County so that the Town could
switch back and forth. Juanita Harbour stated that they were willing to do
their part but it should be spread around. Town Manager Tom Robinson indicated
that he had spoken to Randy Gould, Moore County Public Works Director and the
County was going to be raising their bulk water rates. Mr. Robinson stated that
the Town would have a surplus amount of funds at the 2/3 rate but would not at
50% of the recommended increase. The Board stressed exploring other options so
that rates would not have to be increased again in the near future.
B.   After much discussion, a motion was made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch to approve the FY 2014-2015 Budget and
Budget Ordinance with 2/3 of the recommended increase in the water and sewer
rates and a $.03 increase in the tax rate.  Two ayes and three nays (Mayor Pro-
Tem Riley, Commissioner Graham and Commissioner Barber). Motion did not pass.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, the board approved the FY 2014-2015 Budget and Budget Ordinance with ½
of the recommended increase in the water and sewer rates and a $.03 increase in
the tax rate. Three ayes and two nays (Commissioner Dowdy and Commissioner
Chalflinch). Motion carried.
V.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
VI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Riley, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:15 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
___________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 15, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 15, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, July 15, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine
Graham, Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley
was absent.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present was concerned citizen Johnny Smith.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Graham led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS: 
 Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board approved adding adoption of the Resolution Approving Local
Water Supply Plan be added to the Agenda as F under New Business. All ayes.
Motion carried.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Budget Workshop June 11,
2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 17, 2014
The board questioned an item in the Minutes Board of Commissioners Special
Meeting June 26, 2014 and instructed the Town Clerk to review the recording of
the minutes for clarification. These minutes will be resubmitted for approval
at the next meeting.
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson summarized his manager’s report and stated that he is making good
progress on the Little River Rural Center grant issue. Mr. Robinson reported
that the Savannah’s Garden and Pinetree subdivisions were approved under the
old ordinance and that he and Public Works Director Rocky Davis are looking at
the streets in Savannah’s Garden to see what needs to be done so that they can
be accepted by the Town.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved extending the water contract with United
Water for a three year period of time effective July 1, 2014. All ayes. Motion
carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board adopted the Resolution Accepting Town Maintained Streets
for the streets in Forest Ridge Phases 1, 2 and 3A as town maintained streets.
All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board approved the preliminary engineering contract with LKC
Engineering in the amount of $25,000 for the pre-treatment system at the water
plant, new clear well, Union Church Road water main, Pinecrest pump station
upgrade and Buggy Drive sewer projects and authorizes the Mayor and Manager to
sign this contract on behalf of the Town following a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
D.   The board approved the appropriation of $25,000 from the Water and Sewer
Capital Reserve Fund to the Water and Sewer Budget (Transfer A, Budget
Amendment #1) following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded
by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   After much discussion, the board decided to table the Bulk/Yard Debris
Ordinance until next month in order to consider additional options.
F.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board approved the Interlocal Agreement Regarding
Municipal E-911 Address Assignment by Moore County GIS. All ayes. Motion
carried.
G.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Approving Local Water
Supply Plan. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   The board was pleased that Mr. Nurkin will be starting the mural soon.
B.   Mr. Robinson stated that Pat Corso would be happy to attend a board
meeting if the Commissioners had any questions on the Partners in Progress
update.
C.   Mr. Robinson briefly summarized the Little River Rural Center Grant
update.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The Planning Board, Appearance Committee and Historical Committee did not meet
this month. None of the committee members were in attendance at the meeting.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor McGraw asked the board to keep Mayor Pro-Tem Riley in their prayers and
he thanked everyone for doing a good job.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:12 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
___________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 19, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 19, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, August 19, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine
Graham, Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley
was absent.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Others present were Ken Skipper, Moore County Fire Marshal; Bryan Phillips,
Moore County Public Safety Director; Paul Davis, Carthage Historical Committee
and concerned citizen Johnny Smith.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Graham and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 26, 2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 15, 2014
C.   Budget Amendments #2, #3
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson introduced the new Town Planner Kathy Liles. The Board welcomed Ms.
Liles. Mr. Robinson summarized his manager’s report and addressed the
dilapidated house located at 110 Old Glendon Road. Ms. Liles discussed the
town’s options and the board agreed that the Town should send the owner a
violation letter and report back at the next meeting. Mr. Robinson informed the
board that Attorney Susan Burkhart could not attend the meeting tonight but she
did state that she thought the Town was in good shape as far as the law suit
stands. Mr. Robinson addressed the Town’s cash position and the fact that funds
don’t come in until later in the year. The Board agreed to keep the regular
scheduled meeting date for September even though Mr. Robinson will be out of
town.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Chief Tyner and Fire Marshal Skipper gave a brief overview of the new
Glendon substation. Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded
by Commissioner Barber, the board approved supporting the Glendon Substation
Fire and EMS plan as submitted. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved the Fire Department capital outlay
budget amendment as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   OLD BUSINESS
B.   The board adopted the Resolution Executing Interlocal Agreement with Moore
County following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board approved amendment of the sewer interconnection project to
include the three listed improvements provided the USDA is in agreement and
grant funds cover this cost following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Commissioner Dowdy apologized to Public Works Director Rocky Davis for
comments he had made at the last meeting and after some discussion the board
approved the Bulk/Yard Debris Collection ordinance as presented with a change
to the pile limit from four to five feet wide following a motion made by
Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E.   After some discussion the Board agreed to the Pay and Classification Plan
study, discussed website suggestions and agreed to have Dennis Pinnix make a
presentation on code enforcement.
II.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis reported that the Historical Committee discussed possible relocation
to the Community building, lack of members and ways to recruit new ones, as
well as repairs needed at the current museum. Public Works Director Rocky Davis
stated that the needed repairs on the current museum would cost approximately
$25,000. Discussion was held concerning obtaining an estimate on what it would
cost to make the old Buggy building habitable.
III.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Dowdy commented on the number of people he has seen pull over to
admire the mural. Mayor McGraw stressed that it was not the Town doing the
mural; although, the Town did provide seed money to get the project started.
Commissioner Graham stated that the mural is being sponsored by the Century
Committee and is being privately funded; the Town made a onetime donation.
There will be a ribbon cutting ceremony for the mural on Thursday, September 18
at 5:00 p.m. Commissioner Barber indicated that the mural is a real positive
step for the Town and he thanked everyone.
IV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
V.   CLOSED SESSION:
The board moved into closed session at 7:48 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (4) to discuss matters relating to the location or expansion of
industries or other businesses in the area served by the public body and
N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) to consider the qualifications, competence,
performance, condition of appointment of a public officer or prospective public
officer or employee, following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to
regular session at 8:15 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
VI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:15 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
__________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 4, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 4, 2014
6:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Thursday,
September 4, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine
Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley and
Commissioner Artie Barber were absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Director Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Dennis Pinnix, Code Enforcement, Inc.; Bill Lester, LKC
Engineering; Planning Board member Max Muse, Historical Committee member Paul
Davis, Appearance Committee member Bonnie Brown and concerned citizens Doug
Brown and Patty Kempton.
I.   CALL TO ORDR:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   NEW BUSINESS:
A.   Dennis Pinnix gave a presentation on the code enforcement procedures that
his company follows. Mr. Pinnix stressed that their main goal is to be fair to
all citizens and to increase property values which leads to increased revenue.
Mr. Robinson stated that Carthage is an attractive place to live, it just looks
a little worn. Mr. Robinson reiterated that he needs the Board’s support to
make this program work. The board thanked Mr. Pinnix and agreed that they would
discuss and review a draft proposal at the next meeting.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, the board adopted the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale of the Fire Department’s 2004 Ford Explorer, VIN #
1FMZU72K94UB44269 using GOVDEALS.com or private sale. All ayes. Motion carried.
Commissioner Dowdy requested that the Town Manager inform the board when the
vehicle sells and for how much.
V.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Bill Lester gave an update on the water improvement project. Mr. Lester
reported that the Preliminary Engineering Report (PER), should be ready for
board approval in October. They are doing an environmental assessment and going
through all options. Mr. Lester discussed doing a pilot test and indicated that
they are on schedule. Mr. Lester indicated that he would keep the board up to
date on the project.
VI.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
VII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:59 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
___________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 16, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, September 16, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Catherine
Graham, Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley
was absent.
Also present were Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews,
Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Others present were Carthage Historical Committee member Paul Davis, Troop 852
Boy Scouts with their parents and concerned citizens Chuck Nunnery, Johnny
Smith and Brittani Johnson.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Boy Scout Troop 852 members led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 19, 2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session August 19, 2014
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting September 4, 2014
D.   Budget Amendments #5, #7
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Clerk Karen
O’Hara stated that there was not much to add to the Manager’s report and
answered questions concerning the banking services and the repaving project.
Commissioner Dowdy asked the Town to follow up on the repaving of the driveway
entrance to the cemetery.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved appointing Stacy Overton to the
Historical Committee for a three year term to expire June 2017. All ayes.
Motion carried.
B.   After a brief discussion, the board approved tabling adding an Employee
Assistance Program to the Town’s employee benefit package in order to do
further research following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The Town Hall building roof replacement item was tabled in order to take a
further look at the issue.
D.   The consensus of the board was that they would like to appoint someone
among themselves to fill the potential open commissioner seat. The board
requested that the Town advertise on the water bill and the website.
X.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis reported that the committee is moving forward to try and find new
members. He also stated that the museum will be open for a period of time after
the mural dedication on Thursday. Ms. O’Hara gave a summary of the last
Appearance Committee meeting and advised that the committee will be sponsoring
a fish fry fundraiser on Friday, October 3.
XII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber thanked the Boy Scouts for attending the meeting, stated
that a citizen from Cabin Branch had called him to request more police presence
in the area and he questioned the concrete slabs by Cox’s pump station.
Commissioner Graham also thanked the Boy Scouts and the town employees as well
as reminded everyone about the mural dedication. She encouraged the Boy Scouts
to continue in public service. Commissioners Dowdy and Chalflinch stated that
the other commissioners had covered everything. Mayor McGraw stated that the
town is running well and thanked everyone.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:  
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:56 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
__________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 21, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 21, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, October 21, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean
Riley was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis, Police Officer Diana Ballard,
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Public Works Director Rocky Davis and Buddy Thompson.
Also present were Bill Lester, LKC Engineering; Appearance Committee members
Nancy McKenzie and Judi Kelly, Historical Committee member Paul Davis and
concerned citizens Marc Phillips and Johnny Smith.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, the board approved adding Budget Amendment #14 to the Consent Agenda.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board approved adding Police Chief Bart Davis and Public Works
Director Rocky Davis to the Agenda under Public Appearance. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board approved the execution of a contract with LKC and approval of
a budget amendment be added to the Agenda as item D under New Business. All
ayes. Motion carried.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 16, 2014
B.   Budget Amendments #10, #11, #13, #14
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
Police Chief Bart Davis introduced and gave a brief background on new Officer
Evelyn Diana Ballard, who prefers to go by Diana. The board welcomed Officer
Ballard. Chief Davis described the crime mapping/anonymous tips software that
is now live online and the board requested that it be linked to the town
website. Public Works Director Rocky Davis introduced his new Maintenance
Worker III Buddy Thompson. He stated that Mr. Thompson has a lot of good
experience and we are lucky to have him. The board welcomed Mr. Thompson.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reviewed his report. Mr. Robinson explained that the money from the
sale of the vehicle will go back into the fire department budget and will not
come before the board again. The board agreed that the town should go ahead
with preparing a pedestrian and bike path plan in order to be able to apply for
grants. The board discussed the 24/27 strategic corridor and directed the town
manager to gather more information. The board would like the citizens to be
involved and tabled the issue until the November meeting. After some
discussion, the board decided not to amend the purchasing policy at this time.
Mr. Robinson mentioned the pending board vacancy and read a letter from the
Lions Club thanking the town for the signs.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board approved appointing Patricia Taylor Brown to the Appearance
Committee for a three year term to expire June 2017. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The board adopted the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale of the Public Works 1984 John Deere Backhoe and the 2003 Ford
F-150 pick-up truck following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board adopted the Resolution Declaring Surplus Equipment and
Authorizing Sale of the fire department metal truck top, tabling the sale of
the scuba equipment for further consideration, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion
carried.
D.   Bill Lester provided an update on the status of the documents for the
water treatment plant upgrades and indicated that they are ahead of schedule.
He stated that some of the water and sewer loss has already stopped. After a
brief discussion, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved a design contract with LKC for
an amount not to exceed seventy percent of the estimated design cost for the
pretreatment facility and clearwell and a budget amendment to cover this cost.
All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved awarding the roofing contract to
Carolina Roofing Company in the amount of $104,541.80. All ayes. Motion
carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved sending a letter to Mr. Allen Hart with
USDA requesting the use of the Debt Service Reserve funds to help pay for the
roof replacement on the Town Hall building. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.    Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Dowdy, the board approved a budget amendment to appropriate
$81,454.00 from the USDA Reserve Fund to the General Fund to help pay for the
roof replacement on the Town Hall building . All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Nancy McKenzie reported on the planter decoration, the bench that the county
ordered and the cigarette caddies that are being used. She stated that people
have noticed and are happy with the changes. Ms. McKenzie thanked everyone for
the team work and indicated that Judi Kelly was working on a brochure for the
committee. Ms. Kelly reported on the committee’s finances and the dinner they
are going to provide to the firemen to thank them for their help in watering
the plants. The board thanked the committee. Paul Davis reported that the
committee was discussing relocation of the museum, as well as the Tour of Homes
which is scheduled for Sunday, December 7. Mr. Davis indicated that new member
Stacy Overton is outstanding and the committee is still looking for more new
members.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber thanked the manager, police chief and public works director
for the smooth flow of traffic at the school and addressing the standing water,
as well as mentioned adding additional police patrols in Cabin Branch.
Commissioner Graham commended the Appearance Committee for their hard work and
thanked the community and staff. Commissioner Dowdy thanked all of the
employees, stated how good it looks uptown and remarked that the Historical
Committee sometimes goes unnoticed but is doing good things. Commissioner
Chalflinch thanked everyone, said the town looks good and he is glad to be a
citizen and on the board. Mayor McGraw mentioned the speed limit on Rockingham
Street and Commissioner Dowdy mentioned abandoned cars. The town manager
indicated the town is already working on the abandoned car issue and will look
into the speed limit concern.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Graham gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Graham, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:53 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 10, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 10, 2014
6:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday,
November 10, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. at the W.C. Walton Municipal Building (Town
Hall).
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean Riley and
Commissioner Catherine Graham were absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara and
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews.
The purpose of the meeting was to approve the Series Resolution Providing for
the Sale and Issuance of a $1,056,000 Water and Sewer System Revenue Bond,
Series 2014.
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
Town Manager Tom Robinson stated that the USDA will be issuing a revenue bond
on November 18, 2014 to pay off the outstanding bond anticipation note held by
BB&T at maturity on November 20, 2014. Mayor McGraw introduced the resolution
and stated that the board needs to adopt the resolution prior to the closing
date.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber, and seconded by Commissioner
Dowdy, the board adopted the Series Resolution Providing for the Sale and
Issuance of a $1,056,000 Water and Sewer System Revenue Bond, Series 2014. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the closing prayer.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:04 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 18, 2014
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 18, 2014
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, October 21, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, Catherine Graham and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Jean
Riley was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Police Chief Bart Davis,
Lieutenant Robbie Mabe, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Public Works Director Rocky
Davis.
Also present were Historical Committee member Paul Davis and concerned citizens
Marc Phillips, a local Boy Scout, Annette McGraw and Johnny Smith.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
 Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Graham gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Graham. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 21, 2014
B.   Budget Amendments #18, #19
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reviewed his report. Mr. Robinson added that Jimmy Riley is working on
street repairs in Savannah’s Garden and the town will hopefully be able to
accept the streets in January. Mr. Robinson explained that the concerns at
Carthage Elementary School still need some more work, a section of the street
needs to be milled and redone when the weather gets warmer. Mr. Robinson
reported that the letters sent to the owner of 110 Old Glendon Road had been
returned so the next step is to post the property and hold a hearing. If
nothing is done, then the next formal step is condemnation.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Graham, the board approved submitting a NCDOT Planning Initiative
Grant application for a combined bicycle and pedestrian plan in an amount not
to exceed $36,000, and to authorize execution of the resolution in support of
the grant application. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The board approved cancelling the December 2014 regular scheduled meeting
following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board approved engaging Womble Carlyle Sandridge and Rice to serve as
bond counsel in connection with the financing for the town’s proposed water and
sewer system improvements, following a motion made by Commissioner Graham and
seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Following a brief discussion, the board approved requesting that the town
staff write letters to gain support for adding Hwy 24/27 back on the DOT list
as a strategic corridor, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis reported that the Historical Committee is pleased that the town now
has a Code Enforcement Officer working on building standards. After a brief
discussion on code enforcement, the board agreed that the Maconaghie Building
should be inspected to make sure that it is up to minimum housing standards, as
well as reviewing the parking issues at that location. Mr. Robinson informed
the board that a group from UNC was coming to tour the old buggy building to
see if they could offer any suggestions on saving the building.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
The board scheduled a Special Meeting for Tuesday, January 13, 2015 at 6:00
p.m. in order to interview candidates for the vacancy on the board.
Commissioner Barber requested that the energy savings information be put in the
newsletter and questioned a business out on Jeffers Road that may be in
violation of the ordinances. Commissioner Chalflinch stated that the Jeffers
Road business owner should be allowed to work where he is. Commissioner Dowdy
said that he would miss Commissioner Graham and wished her the best. Mayor
McGraw stated that he will miss Commissioner Graham’s advice and wished her the
best as a County Commissioner. Commissioner Graham responded that it had been
her pleasure to serve and she appreciated the staff and board members.
Commissioner Graham stated that the board had done good things, hired a new
manager, made some tough decisions and she thanked everyone for letting her
serve. Mayor McGraw invited all present to attend a reception for Commissioner
Graham.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:15 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
2015 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 15, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 15, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday,
January 15, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie
Barber, and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles and
Town Clerk Karen O’Hara.
Also present were commissioner candidates George Wilson and Marc Phillips and
concerned citizen Johnny Smith.
The purpose of the meeting was to interview candidates for the vacancies on the
board and to hold a Public Hearing to adopt a Solar Energy Development
Ordinance.
Mayor McGraw opened the meeting at 6:32 p.m. and informed the board that Mayor
Pro-Tem Jean Riley had resigned from the board due to heath issues.
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation and Mayor McGraw led everyone in
reciting the pledge of allegiance.
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:30 p.m. Ms. Liles explained the
need to draft a Solar Energy Ordinance and the fact that the Town had used the
UNC and NC State template with changes made particular to the Town. Ms. Liles
stated that the Planning Board recommends that the Board adopt this ordinance
and has signed a consistency statement. There was no one present to speak
concerning this topic. After some discussion, Mayor McGraw closed the Public
Hearing at 6:59 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution in Support of
the Statement of Land Use Plan Consistency and the Solar Energy Development
Ordinance. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board interviewed George Wilson and Marc Phillips for the two vacant seats
on the board. Following a motion made by Commissioner Dowdy, and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the board approved appointing George Wilson to fill the
remainder of the term left vacant by Catherine Graham. All ayes. Motion
carried. Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber, and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved appointing Marc Phillips to fill
the remainder of the term left vacant by Jean Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
George Wilson gave the closing prayer.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:33 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JANUARY 20, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 20, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, January 20, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber
and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Police Chief Bart Davis,
Lieutenant Robbie Mabe, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Public Works Director Rocky
Davis.
Also present were Clerk of Court Susan Hicks, Bill Lester, LKC engineering;
Justin Knight, Martin Starnes & Associates; Dennis Pinnix, State Code
Enforcement; Town Attorney T.C. Morphis, newly appointed Commissioners George
Wilson and Marc Phillips with family and friends, Historical Committee member
Paul Davis and concerned citizens John McDonald, Roland Gilliam, Tommy
McKenzie, Annette McGraw and Johnny Smith.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting November 10, 2014
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 18, 2015
C.   Budget Amendments #21, #26, #27, #28, #29
OATHS OF OFFICE: Clerk of Court Susan Hicks administered the oath of office to
recently appointed Commissioner George H. Wilson, Jr. and Commissioner Marc
Phillips.
RECEPTION: The board recessed for a reception at 6:36 p.m.
RESUME MEETING: The board resumed the regular meeting at 6:52 p.m.
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.    Justin Knight gave a presentation on the FY 2013/2014 audit. Mr. Knight
reviewed the highlights of the audit and reported that the audit had been
approved by the LGC. Town Manager Tom Robinson stated that the town had started
the year in the hole, raised taxes, reigned in the budget and should be better
this year.. Mayor McGraw thanked Mr. Knight for his audit review.
B.    Town Attorney T.C. Morphis presented a power point outlining the changes
to the Housing and Building Code. Mr. Morphis informed the board that these
amendments would repeal all of the existing minimum housing codes and the
abandoned structures ordinances and enact one ordinance that incorporates both
minimum housing and unsafe buildings. This includes streamlining the
enforcement process and adoption of the international property maintenance
code.
C.    Dennis Pinnix gave a report on the outstanding ordinance violation cases
and requested that the town consider changing the nuisance ordinance grass
regulation from 24” to 12”. Mr. Pinnix stated that with the limited time his
firm was working for the town, they had to be careful and could only handle a
certain number of cases at one time. The board set February 17, 2015 as the
date for the Public Hearing to consider adoption of the Housing and Building
Code, following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.    Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 7:47 p.m. Mr. Lester gave an
overview of the CDBG Grant process. He explained that this first hearing is a
generic hearing. The town needs to identify a project before scheduling the
next hearing. There was no one present to speak on this topic. Mayor McGraw
closed the Public Hearing at 7:53 p.m.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson noted that the budget amendments were within line items and reviewed
his report. Mr. McDonald reported on the Rotary Club recognition of the Police
Department and the board consensus was that it was a good idea. The board also
agreed to the town purchasing a flat screen television for the board room to
use for viewing presentations. The board agreed to hold a budget workshop/
retreat on Saturday, March 7, 2015 at 9:00 a.m. Mr. Robinson made a correction
to an earlier statement concerning the savings from the new solar lights in
town. The town is saving approximately $300 per month, not $3,000. After a
brief discussion, the board approved requesting that Moore County take the lead
in seeking special legislation from the NC General Assembly in order to
classify the rural portion of Moore County as Tier 1 or 2 depending on the tax
base and income in the area, following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved appointing Commissioner Dowdy to
serve as Mayor Pro-Tempore. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The board approved appointing Debbie M. Gordon to the Appearance Committee
for a term to expire June 2017 following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips
and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Mr. Robinson reported that Jimmy Riley had repaired the streets in
Savannah Gardens at his own expense and the Town had done additional repairs so
that the citizens of this sub-division would have the benefit of town
maintained streets. Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Accepting Town
Maintained Streets for Savannah Gardens as shown in Plat Cabinet 13, Slide 248.
All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   The board adopted the Resolution to Reinstate the Historic Rehabilitation
Tax Credit, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the board agreed to reappoint Junior Vest to the
Fireman’s Relief Fund Board for an additional two year term. All ayes. Motion
carried.
F.   The board agreed to award contracts for the Town’s banking, credit card
and merchant services to First Bank following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Paul Davis reported that the Historical Committee discussed repairs that are
needed at the museum and are hopeful that the museum will be able to be
relocated to the old buggy building. They are glad for the police department
recognition. Ms. O’Hara summarized the Appearance Committee minutes. Mr.
Robinson stated that the Planning Board will review the plans for Hardees and
Bojangles at their next meeting.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Barber requested, and the board agreed, that the Town Manager
should send DOT a letter requesting a turning lane on Hwy 15-501 from Pete’s
Restaurant to Town Hall, as well as warning signs that fire trucks are pulling
out of the Town Hall parking lot. Commissioner Barber also stated that the
County Fire Inspectors are not doing their job and directed the manager to
check on this and report next month. Commissioner Dowdy thanked the staff and
welcomed the new commissioners. He stated his concern with the intersection of
Hwy 24/27 and Needmore Road since it slopes and the cones are still there from
when they paved that area. Commissioner Phillips thanked the board for the
opportunity to serve and questioned why the turning lane in front of Wal-Mart
did not continue down Monroe Street. Mr. Robinson stated that DOT decided not
to continue it and the board requested that a letter be written to DOT
addressing that issue. Commissioner Chalflinch brought up the topic of the Post
Office closing during lunch and requested that the Town contact Washington, DC
about the situation since the board wants to rally to keep it open.
Commissioner Wilson remarked that he is proud to serve. Mayor McGraw commented
that he appreciates all departments.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION:
The board moved into closed session at 8:42 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (5) to establish or instruct the staff or agent concerning the
negotiation of the price and terms of a contract concerning the acquisition of
real property located at 106 S. Ray Street, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board returned to regular session at 9:23 p.m. following a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried. No action was taken.
After a brief discussion, the board agreed that the Town Manager should pursue
the purchase of the old buggy building following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 9:25 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 23, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
FEBRUARY 23, 2015
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Monday,
February 23, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Commissioners Artie Barber and George
Wilson were absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Director Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis
and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Garrett Otten, Commercial Site Design; Lee Bakely, Bojangles’
Corporation; Tammy Odom and Matthew Powers, First Bank; Historical Committee
member Paul Davis, local business owners Terry Tillman and Jeffrey and Karen
Frye, Johnny Smith and other concerned citizens.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
T.T.’s Produce owner Terry Tillman stated that he needed the signs out by the
street for his business. People think he is closed because the signs are not
out there. Karefree Produce owner Jeffrey Frye stated that he has had signs out
for five years and without them it will hurt his business. He stated that there
is an 80’ right of way with trees that he can’t cut at the front of his
property, so potential customers cannot see his business. Town Manager Tom
Robinson stated that the town had been overrun with signs and will be looking
at possible amendments to the ordinance. Mr. Robinson stated that he
appreciates residents coming forward and voicing their concerns. Town Clerk
Karen O’Hara reported that an email had been sent to DOT to clarify their
regulations on placing produce signs in the right of way.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting January 15, 2015
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 20, 2015
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session January 20, 2015
D.   Budget Amendment #32
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
Town Planner Kathy Liles presented a summary of the Bojangles’ site plan and
Mr. Otten offered to answer any questions. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy asked about
sidewalks and Ms. Liles explained that the ordinance does not require it and
there is no curb and gutter at this location. There were no further questions
from the board. The board expressed their delight and anticipation at having a
Bojangles’ in Carthage and approved the site plan contingent on the receipt of
the sediment erosion plans, final DOT approval, owner easements for grading
work and the addition of a few trees on the east side of the property.
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reviewed his report and stated that the Town had responded to the
State Treasurer’s office and he and Ms. Matthews are working on making
improvements. Mr. Robinson stated that he hoped the buggy building agreement
would be finalized this week. He requested that the board add Budget Amendment
#34 to the agenda under new business. Mr. Robinson outlined the information he
had received from the USDA on our grant/loan request. USDA will provide
$744,000 total for sewer with $523,000 as a loan at 3% and $221,000 in grant
with no upfront contribution from the Town. This is a 30% grant. For water USDA
will provide $4,000,000 total with $1,766,000 as a loan at 2.25% and $2,234,000
in grant with no upfront cost.  This is a 55% grant. Mr. Robinson stated that
Alan Hart and Lynn Straughn had really stepped in to advocate for the Town of
Carthage and that Bill Lester and Mark Lacy with LKC did an outstanding job
documenting our need and advocating for the Town as well.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy, the board approved appointing Commissioner Phillips as a
designated check signer. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The board adopted the Resolution Designating First Bank an Official
Depository following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Adopting a Policy for Mutual
Assistance with other Law Enforcement Agencies. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy, the board agreed to appoint Greg Hayes to the Historical
Committee for a three year term to expire June 2018. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   Mr. Robinson presented the Fire Department budget for the board’s review.
He stated that Chief Tyner will present reduced service information at the
budget workshop, as well as possible changes to the county’s portion.
F.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy, the board approved Budget Amendment #34 allocating funds
received from the Century Committee to be put toward the purchase of the old
buggy building. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   The board reappointed Kin Suggs to the Fireman’s Relief Fund Board for an
additional two year term to expire in December 2016, following a motion made by
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. O’Hara summarized the Planning Board and Appearance Committee meeting
minutes. She stated that no formal plans had been submitted yet for Hardee’s
and Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy requested that the Public Works Director look closely
at the sewer for this location when they are. Historical member Paul Davis
welcomed their new member and gave a brief history on the old buggy building.
XII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Phillips stated he was glad that everyone was safe and the town
did a good job during the storm. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy agreed that the town did a
good job taking care of the streets and sidewalks. Commissioner Chalflinch
remarked that he appreciated the public coming out to the meeting. Mayor McGraw
agreed that public input is important.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION:
The board moved into closed session at 6:11 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (5) to establish or instruct the staff or agent concerning the
negotiation of the price and terms of a contract concerning the acquisition of
real property located at 202 Monroe Street, following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board returned to regular session at 6:28 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried. No action was taken.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:28 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 5, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 5, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Thursday,
March 5, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, George Wilson, Jimmy Chalflinch and Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director
Rocky Davis and Police Lieutenant Robbie Mabe.
Also present were Lynn Straughan, USDA and Bill Lester, LKC Engineering.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:31 p.m. Town Manager Tom Robinson
introduced Lynn Straughan and stated that Ms. Straughan worked hard for the
Town in order to secure these terms for our projects. Ms. Straughan gave an
overview of the Letter of Conditions for the water project and summarized the
other documents in the packet. The loan for the water project will be at 2.25%
for 40 years with no upfront money required. The reason that the interest rate
is lower on the water than the sewer is because this is an improvement being
mandated by DENHR. Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded
by Commissioner Barber, the board approved the conditions set forth in the
Letter of Conditions dated March 5, 2015, and RUS Bulletin 1780-27, “Loan
Resolution” for the Water System Improvement Project. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Straughan then gave an overview of the Letter of Conditions for the sewer
projects and stated that the paperwork was the same except for different
numbers. The loan for the sewer projects will be at 3% for 40 years. Bill
Lester stated that these project improvements should last approximately 20
years at the present growth rate and will bring the water into compliance. Mr.
Lester commented further that we will be fixing bad situation lift stations and
it will get us to where we need to be. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the board approved the conditions
set forth in the Letter of Conditions dated March 5, 2015, and RUS Bulletin
1780-27, “Loan Resolution” for the Sewer System Improvements Phase 2 Project.
All ayes. Motion carried.
There was no one else present to speak on this subject. Mayor McGaw closed the
Public Hearing at 7:03 p.m.   
V.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
VI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:03 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 7, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MARCH 7, 2015
9:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Saturday, March 7, 2015 at 9:00 a.m. in the Fire Department at the
W.C. Walton Municipal Building (Town Hall).
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch., Artie Barber, George Wilson and Marc Phillips.
A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Fire Chief
Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2015/2016
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.
Town Manager Tom Robinson provided an overview of the budget process and the
meeting today. He stated some of the financial challenges facing the town are
funding for the police officer hired last year, the firefighters hired under
the SAFER grant and the loss of sales tax over the years. Mr. Robinson did
emphasize the utility and tax increases made last year. He reported that the
increased utility rates should produce a surplus this year and these rates can
be adjusted at any time, whereas the tax rate needs to be set by June 30. Mr.
Robinson reviewed the State of the Town report. Discussion was held concerning
the request from the Commerce Department for repayment of the funds owed from
the Rural Center agreement with Little River/Oceanico/VLR.
V.   POLICE DEPARMENT:
Mr. Robinson explained that Police Chief Bart Davis had requested vacation time
quite a while ago, which was why he was not attending this meeting. The board
reviewed the memo from Chief Davis that was included in the packet.
VI.   PUBLIC WORKS:
Public Works Director Rocky Davis stated that his budget is the same as last
year. He is moving some money around in order to cover the cost of the state
law mandating the Town to join 811. The board requested documentation of the
law and the costs. Mr. Davis reported that he had gotten figures on automatic
meter reading and there was much discussion on that topic. He also stated that
he is working on a CIP, which Mr. Robison said would be presented at the next
budget meeting. The consensus of the board was that the $16,000 raised on the
sale of the backhoe and the truck could be used to fix the courthouse clock and
purchase a trailer to haul the tractor, a plow and a salt spreader.
VII.     FIRE DEPARTMENT:
Mr. Robinson summarized that the SAFER grant is expiring since it was only a
two year grant. Property tax and fire tax increases will be necessary in order
to maintain the current services. Chief Tyner provided some background on his
experience and explained that all parties knew from the beginning that these
positions might have to be cut when the grant ran out, but he would like to be
able to continue providing the level of service the town has been able to
provide. Discussion was held on different options and maintaining a fire rating
of 6 in order to prevent an increase in insurance rates. The board emphasized
providing the public a chance to speak on this issue. Following a motion made
by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the board
agreed they wanted to maintain current personnel (Option 1) even if it means
having to raise the tax rate. Four ayes and one nay (Commissioner Phillips).
Motion carried.
VIII.
Mr. Robinson stated that Mr. Davis is near the time that he will be retiring
and suggested hiring a working Assistant Director to fill the vacant position
in the department. After much discussion, Mayor McGraw stated that the question
is whether to hire someone now for Mr. Davis to train or wait until after his
retirement. The consensus of the board was to hire someone now.  
IX.   COMMISSIONER PRIORITIES:
Commissioner Dowdy would like to stay aggressive with residents in code
enforcement and improving the look of the town, as well as repair and
installation of sidewalks. Commissioner Phillips stated that all items from
last year look good. Commissioner Chalflinch emphasized sidewalks, as well as
made a suggestion for the sidewalk from the school to McNeill Street.
Commissioner Wilson had no specifics at this time. Mayor McGraw applauded the
Appearance Committee for their work to bring business to Carthage. Ms. Matthews
advised the board to think long term; they will be making tough decisions now
that will affect future boards as well as the town.
X.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the closing prayer.
XI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 11:59 a.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 17, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 17, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, March 17, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Administrative Assistant Dina
Tharp, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis, Lieutenant
Robbie Mabe and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Attorney Carol White, Town Attorney T.C. Morphis, Maytag
Laundromat owners Brian Harbour and his parents, City Barbershop owner Lee
Chriscoe, Historical Committee member Paul Davis, concerned citizens Mark Fry,
Crimson Saunders and Tim Emmert.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Mark Fry, Chair of the Mural Committee gave an update on the mural project. The
second mural will be painted on the wall of Dunk’s Gym facing Fidelity Bank.
Mr. Fry stated that the committee decided to go with the same artist that did
the first mural since they were happy with his work. The theme for this mural
will be James McConnell and the committee has a little over $15,000 already
raised. Mr. Fry indicated that the artist should have some sketches next week.
As long as everything goes as planned, he anticipates that Scott will start on
the mural at the end of May.
V.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Mayor McGraw added Conduct of the Commissioners to the Agenda after Committee
Reports and Business.
VI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Brian Harbour, owner of Maytag Laundromat, stated that when the town raised the
water rates last July, they raised them so much that it may put him out of
business. Mr. Harbour congratulated the town on receiving the grant and loan
for water improvement. He then stated that he feels he should get some relief
from the town since his water bill is now 25% of his monthly sales. Mr. Harbour
reported that the Laundry Association states that all utilities together should
be 25% of monthly sales but his are 40%. He also claimed that he did raise
prices at the laundromat which actually hurt his sales.
Carol White stated that she would like to speak concerning the Conduct of the
Commissioners. Mayor McGraw requested that she reserve her comments until that
agenda item was addressed.
Crimson Saunders stated that he was there to support Commissioner Barber. He is
trying to open a business and has been seeking more information on what he can
do. All of the commissioners have given him good information.
Lee Chriscoe stated that he is a member of the community and owns the local
barbershop and he was there in support of Commissioner Barber.
Tim Emmert stated that he lives on McReynolds Street and was there in support
of the Minimum Housing Ordinance. He is grateful to the board for their
concern.
VII.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 23, 2015
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Meeting February 23, 2015
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting March 5, 2015
D.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Budget Workshop March 7, 2015
E.   Budget Amendments #36, #39, #40
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:55 p.m. Mr. Robinson explained that
there are few substance changes to the ordinance; it is basically putting the
pieces we have together in one ordinance. Mr. Morphis stated that Code
Enforcement will work with citizens in order to bring situations up to code.
Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 7:00 p.m. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, the board adopted
the Ordinance to Amend the Town of Carthage Code of Ordinances Chapter 93
Housing and Building Code. All ayes. Motion carried. 
Mayor McGraw opened the second Public Hearing at 7:00 p.m. Mr. Robinson
explained that the major change to the nuisance ordinance was reducing the
maximum height of noxious weeds or grass to eighteen (18) inches from twenty-
four (24). No one was present to speak on this issue. Mayor McGraw closed the
hearing at 7:03 p.m. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the board adopted the Ordinance to Amend
the Town of Carthage Code of Ordinances Chapter 93.01 and 93.02 (A) (1). Four
ayes and one nay (Commissioner Barber). Motion passed. 
The board requested that this updated ordinance information be placed in the
newsletter.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reviewed his report and expanded on the status of the buggy building
roof replacement. Mr. Robinson explained the history of the buggy building and
the board suggested that information be included in the newsletter about the
town obtaining this building and plans for use of the building. Due to the fact
that the town is borrowing money from the Century Committee, we will need to
get approval from the LGC. A Special Meeting has been scheduled for March 26,
2015 in order to hold a Public Hearing to satisfy one of the requirements of
the LGC. Mr. Robinson reported that the town had received the property and fire
tax valuation figures. Both had decreased and this issue would be addressed at
the budget workshop. Mr. Robinson indicated that we are still working with the
Commerce Department on obtaining documentation for the Little River grant
violation.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   The board approved appointing Bill Perkins to the Historical Committee for
a three year term to expire June 2018, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   The board set Thursday, May 14, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. at the Fire Department
as the date for the next budget workshop.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Mr. Paul Davis thanked the Century Committee for their assistance in obtaining
the old buggy building and indicated that the committee is looking forward to
relocating the museum to this historical building. Mayor McGraw requested that
the Historical Committee and the Appearance Committee think about sign
alternatives for businesses that may not have street visibility.
The mayor called for a five minute recess.
XIII.   CONDUCT OF THE COMMISSIONERS
Mr. Morphis began by stating that certain commissioner behavior has come to the
attention of the board and the topic of this is Artie Barber. Mr. Morphis
stated that he knows that Commissioner Barber has put a lot of work and effort
into the board as well as other issues. Mr. Morphis suggested that he would
give a brief description of the alleged happenings and stressed that this issue
is addressing the behavior of Commissioner Barber, not political conduct of the
board. Mr. Morphis read a copy of the agreement document he had prepared for
Commissioner Barber to sign (Exhibit A). A copy of this agreement document, as
well as supporting documentation (Exhibit B) are attached to the minutes and
incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Morphis informed the board that if
Commissioner Barber does not want to sign this agreement, then the board will
have to discuss options for addressing this issue. Commissioner Barber stated
that he would not sign the agreement that Mr. Morphis read. Carol White
introduced herself as Commissioner Barber’s attorney. Ms. White stated that
Commissioner Barber did not acknowledge wrongdoing so could not sign the
statement without investigating each allegation. Ms. White handed out an
agreement document to the board (Exhibit C), a copy of this agreement is
attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference. Ms. White
stated that they were offering the commitments in this document as a resolution
to the problem. A brief discussion was held concerning ethics and a copy of the
Town of Carthage Code of Ethics (Exhibit D) was given to each commissioner. All
parties agreed that they did not want this to go to trial and that it should
end now; one of the main reasons being financial. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the board agreed
to accept the commitments that Commissioner Barber, through his wife (should be
attorney) has offered and the acknowledgement of acceptance of the Code of
Ethics and the commitment to abide by them from all board members. All ayes.
Motion carried. Ms. White handed out a packet of statements obtained from local
residents and business owners (Exhibit E) to the board, a copy of this packet
is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Wilson stated that he was doing better now. Commissioner
Chalflinch remarked that he was glad this had been settled. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
agreed that he was happy to have it settled. Commissioner Barber thanked the
people for their support. Commissioner Barber asked Mr. Morphis the correct way
to address concerns about current employees. Mr. Morphis stated that he should
talk to the Town Manager or the Board can go into closed session to address a
personnel issue. Mayor McGraw remembered John Chappell.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:18 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 26, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 26, 2015
6:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Thursday,
March 26, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, George Wilson, Jimmy Chalflinch and Artie Barber. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara and
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews.
Also present was Historical Committee member Paul Davis.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:01 p.m. Town Manager Tom Robinson
explained that the Century Committee is loaning the town the money at a low
interest rate to replace the roof on the Tyson and Jones Buggy Building. The
LGC needs to review and approve this transaction. A public hearing is required
and a resolution needs to be adopted. There was much discussion concerning the
contractor and the bids received. Mr. Robinson did inform the board that the
town is required to choose the lowest responsible qualified bidder. Both Mr.
Robinson and Public Works Director Rocky Davis, via phone, stated that they
were concerned that this job might be too big for Carolina Roofing based on the
work they performed at Town Hall. Paul Davis stated that he wanted the best job
done since it was likely that the museum would be relocated to that building.
Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:27 p.m.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the board adopted the Resolution Authorizing the Filing of an
Application for Approval of a Financing Agreement Authorized by North Carolina
Statute 160A-20. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board approved awarding the contract for the Buggy Building roof
replacement to Central Carolina Roofing pending the approval by the LGC of the
loan financing arrangements. Three ayes and two nays (Commissioner Chalflinch
and Commissioner Wilson). Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch the board approved the Loan Agreement between Town of Carthage and
Carthage Century Committee. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Barber gave the closing prayer.
VI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 6:29 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 21, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 21, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, April 21, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were board members Lee McGraw, Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Artie Barber,
Jimmy Chalflinch, Marc Phillips and George Wilson. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis,
Corporal Steve Martin, Fire Chief Brian Tyner and Public Works Director Rocky
Davis.
Also present were Appearance Committee members Nancy McKenzie and Judi Kelly;
Historical Committee member Paul Davis, Reverend Matthew Locklear, local
business owners Jeffrey and Karen Frye and Billy & Patsy Salmon; concerned
citizen Johnny Smith and a few others.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:38 p.m. following the Board of
Adjustment meeting.
II.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
III.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Mayor McGraw added Budget Amendment #50 and Carthage Food Pantry Report under
the Managers Report.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 17, 2015
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting March 26, 2015
C.   Budget Amendments #41, #45, #46, #48
VI.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reviewed his report and stated that draft budgets should be available
for review soon and it looks as if a four cent tax increase would be needed to
keep the fireman positions and remain revenue neutral. Mr. Robinson also
reported that active termites have been found in the old buggy building which
may require a change order since the building will have to be fumigated and the
damage repaired.
VIII.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Ms. Liles reported that the staff was looking at the current sign
ordinance since there has been much turmoil since the town began pulling signs
that were in violation of the ordinance. Ms. Liles summarized the information
in the agenda packet and suggested holding a town forum with the businesses to
discuss this issue. The board consensus was that they wanted to temporarily
stop enforcement of the sign ordinance for 30-60 days to give the businesses
some relief and let violators know that the town will be enforcing the
Ordinance. The staff will work on Ordinance options, including cost estimates,
to discuss with the business community and present to the Planning Board and
the Board of Commissioners. Mr. Salmon indicated that he would work with any
one, any place, any time. Mayor McGraw commented that the town had received
lots of compliments on how nice the town looks with less clutter, so this issue
will be a balancing act.
B.   The board reviewed the Carthage Police Appreciation Day Proclamation and
agreed that it looked good. Mayor McGraw indicated that this was initiated by
the Carthage Rotary Club in conjunction with their Citizen of the Year Banquet.
C.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board set May 19, 2015 as the date for the Public
Hearing to consider the request from Edward Seawell to rezone his property
located at 3344 Hwy 15-501 from TBD to RA-40. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   After a brief discussion, the board approved the Contract to Audit
Accounts for the Town of Carthage for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2015. All
ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Reverend Locklear read his report and discussion was held concerning the
status of the 501(c) (3) application. Reverend Locklear requested that the
Carthage Board meet with the Food Pantry Board members and it was agreed that
the Food Pantry Board would attend the May Carthage Board meeting. The board
agreed to hold open the terms of the lease agreement for now.
X.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Nancy McKenzie thanked the board for their support and reported on the flower
planting in town. Judi Kelly reported on the new blue pots. Paul Davis stated
that the committee is pleased to see the work on the buggy building and thanked
the Century Committee.
XI.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Wilson had no comments. Commissioner Chalflinch apologized for
being late due to work obligations. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy stated that he is proud
of the Town employees. Commissioner Phillips stated that he had completed 1,000
hours of volunteer work at the Veterans hospital in Durham. Commissioner Barber
applauded the Board’s pro-business stance and the work the Methodist Church is
doing. Mayor McGraw agreed with everything that had been said and the fact that
everyone is working together.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
The board moved into closed session at 8:00 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (3) to consult with our attorney (by phone) to preserve the attorney-
client privilege; and 143-318.11(a) (6) to consider the qualifications,
competence, performance, condition of appointment of a public officer or
prospective officer or employee, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The
board returned to regular session at 8:36 p.m. following a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion
carried. No action was taken.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:36 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 14, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 14, 2015
6:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Thursday, May 14, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in the Fire Department at the
Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and Jimmy
Chalflinch. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis and Police Chief
Bart Davis.
The purpose of the meeting was a workshop to discuss the proposed FY 2015/2016
budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:04 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.
Town Manager Tom Robinson gave a brief overview of the budget and introduced
Ms. Becky Vezey from the Maps Group. Ms. Vezey explained the process used to do
the employee salary survey and handed out a copy of the study to the
Commissioners. Ms. Vezey briefly reviewed the study and requested that the
board take a look at it. She said she would be happy to come back again to
answer any questions.
Mr. Robinson stated that the budget was basically a continuation of what we
have been doing and he was seeking direction on how to proceed. Mayor McGraw
stated that this budget situation is due in part to the potential loss of the
SAFER grant for the four firefighter positions as well as the added police
officer position. Mr. Robinson reported that the town has created a Capital
Improvement Plan (CIP) but has not included any capital improvements in the
budget. This is a long range plan for future projects. He stated that we do
have money in the budget to repair certain sidewalks and streets but will not
be able to repair the street in front of the school, due to the cost. The
budget does include the Assistant Public Works Director position. In order to
return to revenue neutral, retain the employee positions and implement the
first phase of the salary adjustments, Mr. Robinson stated that it will require
a six and a half cent tax increase. Due to a small surplus in the water and
sewer funds, an increase in these rates would not be necessary this year.
Discussion was held concerning the revaluation being less for most residents
which would mean that the tax increase would not actually be as much of an
increase in actual dollar amount. Mr. Robinson discussed the letter from the
State Treasury and emphasized that the Town needed to start building up their
fund balance again and indicated that he was still looking at the laundry
issue. The board requested figures on how much would be available to go back
into the fund balance with and without the possible extension of the SAFER
grant. The board set the Public Hearing for Monday, June 8 at 6:30 p.m. at the
McDonald Building. Mr. Robinson stated that information about the public
hearing would be included in the newsletter scheduled to go out at the end of
this month.
V.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a closing prayer by Commissioner Barber, Mayor McGraw adjourned the
meeting at 7:47 p.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 19, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 19, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, May 19, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis
and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Reverend Mattheue Locklear, Carthage Food Pantry; Pat Corso,
Moore County Partners in Progress; Pastor Jim Boyte and his wife, Gospel Chapel
Church; Paul Davis, Carthage Historical Committee; concerned citizens Edward
Seawell and family, Chuck Nunnery and Ouida Newell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Pastor Jim Boyte stated that he had a question about the flyer that had been
sent out concerning the sign ordinance. Pastor Boyte wanted to know what the
process was and if there was an opportunity for public feedback. Town Manager
Tom Robinson explained the process and reported on the meeting the night before
with local business owners.
Ouida Newell stated that she wants to be able to set up her mobile food unit in
front of her store and sell pizza. Ms. Newell further stated that she should be
allowed to set up the pizza wagon on her land that is zoned commercial and sell
pizza. Mr. Robinson suggested that she call the office and schedule a meeting
with him so that they can check the regulations.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Adjustment Special Meeting April 21, 2015
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 21, 2015
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session April 21, 2015
D.   Budget Amendments #51, #52, #53
VI.    PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Pat Corso spoke concerning incentive guidelines for companies that are looking
for places to expand. Typically Moore County has not had incentives and he is
asking the municipalities to set simple guidelines so that there is a tool to
work with. Mr. Corso stated that Moore County, Southern Pines and Pinehurst
have all approved a program and he has already spoken with the Town of Robbins.
Mr. Robinson stated that this is a proven method and he feels it is useful. The
consensus of the board was to table this item in order to further review the
topic.
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:49 p.m. Mr. Robinson explained that
Mr. Seawell has requested that his property located at 3344 Hwy 15-501 be
rezoned from TBD to RA-40. This property had been rezoned from RA-40 to TBD
quite a few years ago since Mr. Seawell had been planning to open a car repair
business. Mr. Seawell never opened this business and now has someone who would
like to buy the property. The buyer has been unable to obtain a loan since this
is a residential home on a commercial piece of property. No one was present to
speak on this issue, other than Mr. and Mrs. Seawell. Mayor McGraw closed the
Public Hearing at 6:53 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch
and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the board approved the rezoning of
Edward Seawell’s property located at 3344 US Hwy 15-501, Parcel ID #00004544,
from TBD to RA-40. All ayes. Motion carried. 
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson reviewed his report and reiterated the June 1 deadline for the Little
River information. Mr. Robinson indicated that he would be focusing on that
project as well as the USDA deadline for our water quality improvement. Mr.
Robinson reported that the new roof is on the buggy building and the building
is infested with termites. Public Works Director Rocky Davis reported that the
windows will be boarded up this week and he is waiting for an estimate on the
steeple. Mr. Robinson stated that the next step is to form a fundraising
committee.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   The consensus of the board was that they liked the rendering of the next
mural and approved going ahead with the project.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board approved appointing Meg Russell and Daryl
Russell to the Appearance Committee for three year terms to expire June 2018.
C.   Kathy Liles reported that Hardee’s had been very responsive to the changes
on their site plan that we had requested. There is one area where there is a 5’
buffer rather than the required 6’ since they are trying to use some of the
current curbing. The board approved the site plan for Hardee’s as submitted
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board adopted the Capital Project Ordinance for
the Water and Sewer System Improvement Projects. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Mr. Robinson stated that the intention had been to meet with the Food
Pantry board members but none are present. Reverend Locklear reported that they
are pursuing the nonprofit status now but it is a lengthy process. They have
their own bank account and are separated from the church. The board approved
extending the lease for one year from today following a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Mr. Paul Davis repeated the need to attract new members and stated that the
minutes speak for themselves.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Wilson stated that he was good. Commissioner Chalflinch remarked
that he was good as well. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy agreed that he was good and happy
to be here. Commissioner Phillips reminded everyone about the Disabled Veterans
5K race to be held on June 6. Commissioner Barber stated that he was good.
Mayor McGraw remarked that everyone did an awesome job with the Buggy Festival.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Pastor Jim Boyte gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 8, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JUNE 8, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Monday,
June 8, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and Jimmy
Chalflinch. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Director of Public Works Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Firefighters Darrell Sauls and Ryan Allgood.
Also present were Brian Harbour and his parents, owners of the local
laundromat.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a Public Hearing on the proposed FY
2015/2016 budget.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Wilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:31 p.m. Brian Harbour stated that
he had hoped that the Town would have made some changes to his water rates and
it was very disheartening that we hadn’t. He believes that the town should have
commercial rates to spread the cost around. Mr. Harbour stated that ¼ of every
dollar he makes goes to the town and he will stay open until he starts to lose
money. Mr. Harbour reported that the town’s water rates are in the top 10% of
the state and sewer rates in the top 15%. He stated that surrounding town rates
are half the amount of Carthage and he has tried to get other people interested
in participating with his cause but has been unsuccessful since he doesn’t feel
that it is as crucial to them. He stated that he will keep contacting the board
about this issue. Mayor McGraw stated that the laundromat is a service that
helps low income people, but the town has to make sure it is legal to charge
less. A discussion was held concerning reclamation of water. Town Manager Tom
Robinson stated that he has a company analyzing our rates in order to make a
recommendation to the town. Mr. Robinson sympathizes with Mr. Harbour but
stated that the town still needs to bring in the same amount of revenue unless
it can cut expenses, as well as insure that what we do has a public purpose and
is legally defendable. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy remarked that the town needs to look
at rates for all of the citizens as well at the water/sewer expenditures in the
budget which are necessary to maintain our water system. There was no one else
to speak on the budget. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 7:00 p.m.
Mr. Robinson informed the board that the budget summary did not include the
firefighter positions and there is a strong possibility that we will get the
SAFER grant continuation. After a brief discussion, the board consensus was
that the firefighter salaries should be included in the budget based on
continuation of the SAFER grant.
Mr. Robinson informed the board that Ms. Vezey had recommended that the town
pay the entire cost for employee health insurance in order to be competitive
since that is the practice in the other local municipalities. The board agreed
with this recommendation.
Mr. Robinson reported that he would prepare the budget and budget ordinance to
be adopted at the June 16 meeting.
V.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a closing prayer by Commissioner Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the
meeting at 7:05 p.m.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 16, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 16, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, June 16, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Marc Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and
Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis,
Lieutenant Robbie Mabe and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Historical Committee member Paul Davis and concerned citizen
Ouida Newell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting/Budget Workshop May 14,
2015
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 19, 2015
C.   Write off of 2010 delinquent water accounts
D.   Budget Amendments #58, #62, #63, #64
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson stated that he had talked to the firm that was reviewing our water/
sewer rates and they had noticed a few issues but want approximately $30,000 to
work on revising them. Mr. Robinson will talk to our engineer about some of the
issues they mentioned. Mr. Robinson commented that he is still working on the
Little River job data and the easements for the Savannah Garden sewer lines.
Mr. Robinson will be meeting with the Century Committee to discuss forming a
Fundraising Committee and the board consensus was that they would like to see
the museum moved to the old buggy building. The board agreed that the Police
Officer who is receiving Workers Comp should be able to use his accrued leave
time to compensate for the 1/3 of his salary that Workers Comp does not pay,
based on the draft of our new Personnel Policy, since our current policy does
not address this issue.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board approved the 2015-2016 Budget and Budget
Ordinance. Three ayes and one nay (Commissioner Phillips). Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the board approved reappointing Connie Burns and Chris
Lassiter to the Carthage Planning Board for three year terms. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C.   The board approved reappointing Lillie Mae Barrett and Paul Davis to the
Historical Committee following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   The board approved reappointing Nancy McKenzie and Judi Kelly to the
Appearance Committee following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   After much discussion concerning food vendors, the board agreed to allow
food vendors to participate in special events, after satisfactory completion of
the application process stated in the ordinance, and instructed the staff to
continue working on language to allow food vendors on a more consistent basis.
F.   Mr. Robinson and Ms. Mathews provided an overview of the draft Financial
Policies for the board to review and consider for adoption at the July meeting.
G.   Ms. Liles reported on the TARPO meeting and gave an update on the CTP and
the funding of transportation projects. Ms. Liles asked the board to think
about projects they would like to see on the DOT list and provide this feedback
to the staff by the end of the month.
X.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Ms. Liles summarized the six properties that Code Enforcement is currently
working on. A copy of the Open Case Violation Options packet that was
distributed to the commissioners is attached to these minutes and incorporated
herein by reference. The two properties on Sunset Street seem to be working
themselves out and the board approved proceeding with the Ordinance to
Effectuate the Purpose of the Carthage Minimum Housing Code with the other
properties. The Ordinances will be presented for the board’s approval at the
July meeting.
B.   Ms. Liles presented options that the staff has been working on to amend
the sign ordinance. The board agreed that these options should be presented to
the Planning Board for their input and recommendation.
C.   Following a short discussion, the board tabled the Incentives Grants
Guidelines until the July meeting.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Mr. Paul Davis repeated the need to attract new members and summarized the
minutes of the meeting. Ms. O’Hara reported that the Appearance Committee had
met Monday night and discussed fertilizing the flowers, fundraising for the
buggy building and Hilda Morris’ resignation from the committee due to health
concerns.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Barber had no comment. Commissioner Phillips invited all Veterans
to the DAV cookout. Commissioner Chalflinch thanked Public Works Director Rocky
Davis for all their hard work in the rain fixing the water main break at Food
Lion. Commissioner Wilson had no comment. Mayor McGraw thanked the staff,
stated that the Food Pantry is looking for additional help and offered to
assist the Appearance Committee with any physical work they may have.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:07 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 25, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JUNE 25, 2015
5:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Thursday,
June 25, 2015 at 5:00 p.m. at Town Hall.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips and George Wilson. A quorum. Commissioners Jimmy
Chalflinch and Artie Barber were absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara and
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.
Town Manager Tom Robinson reported to the board that the auditors had informed
the town that we needed to record the transaction of receiving USDA funds to
pay off the bond anticipation note associated with the completed sewer
interconnection project. The transaction needed to be completed in this budget
year, prior to June 30, 2015. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the board approved Budget Amendment #65 to
record and allocate the USDA funds to pay BB&T to satisfy the bond anticipation
note. All ayes. Motion carried.
IV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews gave the closing prayer.
V.   ADJORNMENT:
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 5:03 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 21, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 21, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, July 21, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Disabled American Veteran representatives John Regan, Matt
Northen, Steve Ennis and Jim Pedersen; Historical Committee member Paul Davis
and concerned citizen Ouida Newell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
A.   Steve Ennis thanked everyone for their support during the 4 th of July
parade.
B.   Ouida Newell passed around pictures of her pizza trailer, a menu and her
sanitation grade document. Ms. Newell requested that the board give her
approval to sell from her pizza trailer tonight.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 8, 2015
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 16, 2015
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting June 25, 2015
D.   Budget Amendments #1, #2, #3, #4
VI.    PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson informed the board that he was going to hire a consultant to evaluate
our cell phone tower agreements since he believes we are losing money. Mr.
Robinson reported that the old buggy building has powder post beetles as well
as termites and it will cost $2,000-$4,000 to treat them. Mr. Robinson stated
that a few pine trees on Union Church Road may have to be removed in order to
install the 12” waterline and we are going to delay resurfacing the streets in
the cemetery until spring. Mr. Robinson advised that the property behind
Savannah Gardens has a new owner who wants to put in a subdivision and there
has been interest in Little River and Magnolia Hill, so the town needs to talk
about water and sewer availability.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Mr. Robinson summarized the situation with the DAV lease and John Regan
expanded on the needs of the organization, as well as the building on this
site. Mr. Regan stated that they had spoken to Representatives McNeill and
Boles concerning the property and stressed that the group was not asking the
town for money but would like a letter of support. The consensus of the board
was that the manager should write a letter of support to the state, as well as
to Representatives McNeill and Boles.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the board approved reappointing Nezzie Smith to the
Appearance Committee for a three year term. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board approved adopting the Ordinance Ordering the Town of Carthage
Code Enforcement Officer to Proceed to Effectuate the Purpose of the Carthage
Minimum housing Code and G.S. §160A-443 for 1010 Sunset Drive and direct the
Code Enforcement Officer to levy civil penalties against the Owner in
accordance with the Carthage Code of Ordinances §10.99, §93-73 and §93.74
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   The board approved adopting the Ordinance Ordering the Town of Carthage
Code Enforcement Officer to Proceed to Effectuate the Purpose of the Carthage
Minimum housing Code and G.S. §160A-443 for 213 Clark Street and direct the
Code Enforcement Officer to levy civil penalties against the Owner in
accordance with the Carthage Code of Ordinances §10.99, §93-73 and §93.74
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   The board approved adopting the Ordinance Ordering the Town of Carthage
Code Enforcement Officer to Proceed to Effectuate the Purpose of the Carthage
Minimum housing Code and G.S. §160A-443 for 308 Rockingham Street Extension and
direct the Code Enforcement Officer to levy civil penalties against the Owner
in accordance with the Carthage Code of Ordinances §10.99, §93-73 and §93.74
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.   The board approved adopting the Ordinance Ordering the Town of Carthage
Code Enforcement Officer to Proceed to Effectuate the Purpose of the Carthage
Minimum housing Code and G.S. §160A-443 for 701 Sunset Drive and direct the
Code Enforcement Officer to levy civil penalties against the Owner in
accordance with the Carthage Code of Ordinances §10.99, §93-73 and §93.74
following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.   The board approved adopting the Ordinance Ordering the Town of Carthage
Code Enforcement Officer to Proceed to Effectuate the Purpose of the Carthage
Minimum housing Code and G.S. §160A-443 for 910 Currie Street and direct the
Code Enforcement Officer to levy civil penalties against the Owner in
accordance with the Carthage Code of Ordinances §10.99, §93-73 and §93.74
following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Barber the board approved not levying a penalty against any of the
homeowners in the ordinances that had just been approved without board
approval. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board adopted the two Resolutions of the Town of
Carthage Declaring its Official Intent to Reimburse Expenditures under United
States Department of Treasury Regulations. All ayes. Motion carried.
J.   After a brief discussion, the board approved retaining the services of
Segal Revenue and Expense Specialists to conduct the two submitted proposals
and approve the Any and All Revenues and Expenses agreement and the Property
Tax Revenue agreement following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
K.   Mr. Robinson discussed the need for a fundraising committee to begin
raising money for the renovation of the old buggy building. He stressed the
need for the board’s assistance to get the committee up and running and he
asked the board to make it a priority to find people willing to help, as well
as someone to chair the group. Mayor McGraw recommended Bert Patrick.
X.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   After some discussion and a statement by Mr. Robinson that there are no
provisions to allow this use until after the public hearing, the board set
August 10, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building as the date for the
Public Hearing on the amendments to Section 100.70, Section 100.55 and Section
100.56 Special Requirement 38. Vendor, Mobile Food of the Town of Carthage
Development Ordinance following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The board set August 18, 2015 as the date for the Public Hearing on the
amendment to Section 100.56, Special Requirement 1. Agriculture, Animals of the
Town of Carthage Development Ordinance following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board adopted the Fiscal Policy Guidelines as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   The board adopted the Town of Carthage Economic Development Incentive
Grants Guidelines as presented following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   The board set August 18, 2015 as the date for the Public Hearing on the
rezoning of Kim Livengood’s property at 820 Pinehurst Avenue from R-20 back to
RA-40, Parcel ID #20130134 following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. O’Hara stated that the Appearance Committee had not met in July and
summarized the June minutes. Paul Davis emphasized again that the Historical
Committee only had eight members and needed to recruit new members. Mr. Davis
reported that at their last meeting the group discussed the current building,
relocating to the old buggy building, storage issues, the current sign and the
Tour of Homes.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Wilson informed the board that the second mural was completed
today and a ribbon cutting ceremony would be held in August. He also stated
that the Mural Committee might be in competition with the town committees when
it comes to fundraising. Commissioner Chalflinch had nothing at this time.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy stated that some residents had approached him with concern
over speeders on Needmore Street and had requested more police presence.
Commissioner Phillips suggested using speed limit boxes that can attach to an
existing pole which reflect the cars speed. Police Chief Davis suggested that
citizens call him if they have a concern and he can place the pertinent
information on the board for all the officers to see. Commissioner Barber had
nothing at this time. Mayor McGraw stated that there were some young people in
town with a church group helping with repairs on resident’s homes and he
suggested that the town take them ice cream to thank them for their service.
Mayor McGraw thanked all of the town employees.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:58 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 10, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 10, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a special meeting on Monday,
August 10, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch, Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and George Wilson.
A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles and
Town Clerk Karen O’Hara.
Also present were concerned citizens Ouida Newell, Kaye Badgett, Dwayne Walls,
Linda Dunlap, Beth McNeely, Nikki Mizak, Amy Prevost, Jeff Joelmur, Ricky
Jenks, Dan & Sharon Banks, Elizabeth Welks, Lauren Kenefick and her daughter.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in the pledge of allegiance.
IV.
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:32 p.m. Oudia Newell stated that
she wants to start selling pizza from her mobile unit at the antique store on
Friday and Saturday’s from 11:00-7:00. The following individuals spoke in favor
of Ms. Newell’s request: Kaye Badgett, Dwayne Walls, Linda Dunlap, Beth
McNeely, Nikki Mizak, Amy Prevost, Jeff Joelmur, Danny Banks, Lauren Kenefick,
Lauren’s daughter and Elizabeth Welks. Mayor McGraw commented, as a tax paying
citizen, on the concern of food trucks taking tax dollars away from the local
brick and mortar restaurants. Commissioner Chalflinch commented that he was
upset that Ms. Newell had been selling her pizza for the past two weekends
prior to getting approval. There was no one else present to speak on this
issue. Following some discussion, the board adopted the Ordinance Amending
Chapter 100 Development Ordinance of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Carthage as pertains to Mobile Food Vendor following a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use
Plan Consistency for Mobile Food Vendor. All ayes. Motion carried.
V.
Mr. Robinson informed the board that due to the fact that the water plant is
only operating on one bank of filters, the town is not keeping up with the
demand for water. Mr. Robinson reminded the board that we had recently replaced
the filters in the second bank so did not have a reserve set. Additional
filters have been ordered but it may be October 1 before they are available.
Mr. Robinson stated that he had talked to the Town Manager in Southern Pines
and we can get water from them in order to fill the tank and the clear well.
Mr. Robinson stated that he may have to declare a water emergency and should
have a better idea where we stand by Wednesday. The town will post a notice in
the paper, notify customers by mail, email and place notice on the website.
VI.   ADJORNMENT:
Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:18 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 18, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 18, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, August 18, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky
Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, Lieutenant Robbie Mabe and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner.
Also present were DAV representatives John Regan, Matt Northen and Steve Ennis;
Bill Lester and Mark Lacey from LKC Engineering; Historical Committee Member
Paul Davis, concerned citizens Kim Livengood and family, Amy Prevost & family
and Ouida Newell.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
A.   Bill Lester gave an update on the USDA water/sewer project. Mr. Lester
reported that he had gotten the permit from the State today. He will submit it
to the USDA and then we can put the project out to bid. We will then need to go
to the LGC for approval. Mr. Lester indicated that we are in a good spot
meeting our deadlines.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 21, 2015
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting August 10, 2015
C.   Budget Amendment #5
VI.    PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:35 p.m. Ms. O’Hara read an
email from a Nikki Mizak who lives on Barrett Street which is zoned R-10. Ms.
Mizak could not attend the meeting due to her husband’s deployment but was
requesting that the keeping of chickens be allowed in the R-10 zoning district.
Mr. Robinson stated, when asked, that he was in favor of the ordinance. There
was no one else present to speak on this issue. Mayor McGraw closed the Public
Hearing at 6:41 p.m. Following discussion on adding the R-10 zoning district to
the ordinance, Commissioner Phillips made a motion to adopt the Ordinance with
the addition of the R-10 zoning district. After additional discussion,
Commissioner Phillips retracted his motion. The consensus of the board was that
the addition of the R-10 zoning district should be presented to the Planning
Board at their next meeting and then placed on next month’s agenda for the
commissioners.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:43 p.m. Ms. Liles gave a
summary of the rezoning request and Kim Livengood summarized her request. Ms.
Livengood stated that she wants to place a mobile home on this property for her
daughter. Ms. Livengood indicated that currently there is a well and a pool,
storage shelter where vehicles and a camper are kept, multiple mobile homes
used for storage and a wood working studio and a garage where her husband does
work on friends cars. Ms. Livengood stated that there is no commercial work
done with cars or wood working. Amy Provost, Ms. Livengood’s sister, spoke out
against the rezoning. Ms. Provost stated that there is question as to legal
ownership of the land and Ms. Livengood has no regard to ordinances (set up one
of the mobile homes in 2013, using mobile homes as storage and Mr. Livengood
works out of his shop and tows cars there), permits or inspections (never got
any). She requested that the town not approve this rezoning until these
questions are answered. Sabrina Livengood, Kim’s daughter stated that she is
sad that her Aunt doesn’t want her living on the property. Mr. Robinson
suggested that the town act on the rezoning and research the possible code
violations. Ms. Liles informed the board that we go by what is in the tax
records for ownership and regardless of the owner, this rezoning is a
reasonable designation. Ms. Liles stated that under our current ordinance
mobile homes cannot be used for storage and clarified that no additional permit
would be issued until these other issues are addressed. Ms. Livengood gave the
town permission to go out and look at the property. Mr. Robinson said that
after the visit we would consult with our attorney. Mayor McGraw closed the
Public Hearing at 7:20 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, the board approved the rezoning of Parcel
ID #20130134, 820 Pinehurst Avenue from R-20 to RA-40. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use
Plan Consistency as pertains to the Rezoning of Parcel ID #20130134, 820
Pinehurst Avenue, from R-20 to RA-40, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager Tom
Robinson summarized the water situation and the interconnect with Southern
Pines. Mr. Robinson gave an update on the opening of Bojangles’, DAV property
options and Mr. Segal’s optimism about finding ways to save.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved the Resolution Making Certain
Findings and Determinations, Authorizing the Filing of an Application with the
Local Government Commission and Requesting the Local Government Commission to
Sell Bonds and Notes at a Private Sale in Connection with the Issuance of
Revenue Bonds by the Town. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The board agreed to reschedule the September meeting to Tuesday, September
8, 2015 at 6:30 p.m.
C.   Ms. Liles summarized the TARPO meeting she had attended. The consensus of
the board was that the town should do a letter for the mayor’s signature
supporting the projects.
D.   The board discussed getting polo shirts with the town seal and directed
Ms. O’Hara to proceed.
E.   The board discussed the NCLM Conference and agreed to let Ms. O’Hara know
if they were planning to attend sometime this week.
F.   Mr. Regan and Mr. Northen stated that they would prefer that the town
convey the property outright since it is hard to raise donations if the
property is just leased. They also voiced concern that a future board could
always change its mind about leasing the property. The board agreed that Mr.
Robinson should consult with our attorney on the process and cost before a
decision is made.
X.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Mr. Regan and Mr. Northen stated that they would prefer that the town
convey the property outright since it is hard to raise donations if the
property is just leased. They also voiced concern that a future board could
always change its mind about leasing the property. The board agreed that Mr.
Robinson should consult with our attorney on the process and cost before a
decision is made.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. O’Hara summarized the Planning Board and Appearance Committee minutes. Paul
Davis reported that the Historical Committee had again discussed recruitment of
new members.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Barber had nothing at this time. Commissioner Phillips commented
on the wonderful ceremony he attended where a house was presented to a veteran
and his wife. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy stated that he had been out of town this
weekend and inquired as to whether Ouida Newell had been selling her pizza.
Commissioner Chalflinch thanked Police Chief Bart Davis for the officer that
came over and unlocked his car. Commissioner Wilson commended the staff on
their hard work and stated that he is proud to work with such a group. Mayor
McGraw thanked everyone for the mural ribbon cutting last night.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:12 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
REGULAR MEETING
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, September 8, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky
Davis, Assistant Public Works Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis
and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Sandhills Chapter of Military Officers Association of America
(MOAA) representative Sam Webb, Shane Sanders, SNS Engineering; Jonathan Dowd,
Historical Committee Member Paul Davis, concerned citizens Johnny Smith and
Chuck Nunnery.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:  
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board approved adding the Livengood property situation, as well
as moving the Southbury subdivision and the ABC store update, to the agenda
after the Approval of the Consent Agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Sam Webb spoke on the perceived friction between the Disabled American Veterans
Chapter #83 (DAV) in Carthage and MOAA. Mr. Webb commented on the conflict with
event schedules and stated that they would like to work together advocating for
the veterans. Mr. Webb invited the board to attend the MOAA meeting on Thursday
night.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 18, 2015
VII. ADDITON TO THE AGENDA:
Kathy Liles reported that she and Town Manager Tom Robinson had visited the
Livengood property. There are many concerns including illegal/too many uses on
the property, no permits ever issued, safety and tax issues, as well as the
ownership of the property. The board agreed that the town needed to be
consistent with the ordinances and to notify the county about the safety and
tax issues. Staff is also discussing possible options to subdivide the property
to get into some type of compliance.
Ms. Liles informed the board that a new ABC store will be built next to the
Wilcohess store. The biggest concerns are the ingress and egress and staff has
suggested that the engineer work with DOT and Clayton Speer on the driveway.
Ms. Liles summarized the comparison, a copy of which is attached to these
minutes and incorporated herein by reference, of the Savannah’s Ridge and
Southbury plats. Ms. Liles stated that the proposed plat is better than the
original and Shane Sanders has met with Ms. Liles and Public Works Director
Rocky Davis. Mr. Sanders stated that wetlands might still be on some of the
lots but will be shown on the plat, will be defined in the deed or can be
located with a survey. Mr. Sanders state that he does not like to use monuments
since the wetland boundaries can change over time, The board approved the
Preliminary Plat for the Southbury Subdivision as presented with the noted
recommendations which include:
Traffic calming is recommended to ensure that Roberts Place does not become a
“fast” cut through for traffic. Lane narrowing of Roberts Place is recommended
in the vicinity of lots 14 and 15. It shall be included as part of the
construction drawings.
Construction drawings must be reviewed and stamped approved by Public Works
before any physical site alterations begin.
The applicant shall receive all permits from NCDOT, DENR and the Army Corps of
Engineers prior to any construction of any infrastructure. Copies of all
permits shall be provided to the town prior to any site preparation.
Cul-de-sacs shall not include grassed, turfed areas and shall be paved to
ensure adequate turning radius for garbage trucks.
All reasonable attempts will be made to remove wetlands from lots on the final
plat. If the applicant is unable to do so, monuments shall be placed at the
wetland boundary to clearly delineate the boundary. No building envelope shall
contain wetlands.
following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
IX. PUBLIC HEARING:
None
X. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
reported that the town has received the new filters and the water emergency is
over. Mr. Robinson thanked Southern Pines for their help and being a good
neighbor. Mr. Robinson summarized his report and then introduced Kevin Kimball,
our new Assistant Public Works Director. The board agreed to hold a Planning
Retreat on Saturday, November 21 at 8:00 a.m.
XI. NEW BUSINESS
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Opposing the Clean Water Rule and
Supporting any Legislative Means that would Halt the Final Rule until all
Implementation Issues have been Resolved. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board agreed to set October 20, 2015 as the date for the Public Hearing on
the request from Cyndi Secura to rezone Parcel #00000332, 216 Union Church Road
from TBD to R-20 following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII. OLD BUSINESS
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board adopted the Ordinance Amending Chapter 100 Development
Ordinance of the Code of Ordinances for the Town of Carthage as it pertains to
the Keeping of Chickens as presented. All ayes. Motion approved.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use
Plan Consistency as it pertains to the Keeping of Chickens. All ayes. Motion
approved.
The board selected Commissioner Phillips as the voting delegate for the
business meeting at the NCLM Conference, following a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XIII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
Paul Davis reported that the Historical Committee had just meet and discussed
the Tour of Homes and the moving of the museum to the old buggy building. Ms.
O’Hara summarized the Planning Board meeting and stated that the Appearance
Committee will meet next Monday.
XIV. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Barber stated that he appreciates everyone doing a good job and
obtaining the filters so quickly. Commissioner Chalflinch stated that
everything was good. Commissioner Wilson acknowledged a good job to all. Mayor
McGraw stated that since the manager brought up the topic of a review, he
wanted to state that he feels the manager is doing a good job, a question on
the other hand is does the manager want to stay. Mr. Robinson indicated that he
enjoys his job. Commissioner Phillips acknowledged that the manager has always
been approachable when needed. Commissioner Dowdy suggested that the
commissioners take a tour of the water plant.
XV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XVI. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:45 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 20, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 20, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, October 20, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner.
Also present were Cyndi Secura, property owner; Bill Lester, LKC engineering;
David McKew, United Water and Historical Committee Member Paul Davis.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Wilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:  
None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 8, 2015
Budget Amendment #8
VII. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII. PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:31 p.m. Ms. Secura explained that
this property had been rezoned from residential to commercial a few years ago
so that she could run her business from this location. Since there is no longer
a business at this location and she has been unable to rent the building for
commercial purposes, she would like to rezone it back to residential in order
to rent or for a family member to use as a home. There was no one else present
to speak on this subject. Ms. O’Hara stated that she had not received any
inquires or comments concerning the rezoning. Mayor McGraw closed the Public
Hearing at 6:35 p.m. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the rezoning of 216 Union
Church Road, Parcel ID #00000332 from TBD to R-20. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board adopted the Resolution of Land Use Plan Consistency as it
pertains to the Secura rezoning since the Board concludes that the described
amendment is consistent with the Town of Carthage 1999 Land Use Plan and is in
the public interest. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his Manager’s Report and reported that he and Dennis Pinnix had met
with the County Building Inspector to inspect buildings on Courthouse Square
that are owned by Chuck Watson. The determination is that these buildings are
deteriorating quickly and are a hazard to occupy. The consensus of the board
was to move forward to give the owner the opportunity to fix these buildings.
Per the board’s request the Town has been holding off on enforcing sign
regulations but has been concentrating on junk and debris complainants. Mr.
Robinson informed the board that the Town is still working on clarification
from the Department of Commerce on their request for repayment of the Little
River grant. Mr. Robinson reported that the DAV will be meeting with the State
on October 23rd to discuss the property on Priest Hill Road. Furthermore, the
town is researching a legal ad that was in the paper concerning a permit for a
solar facility in Carthage, as well as options and costs for a new phone
system. Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Bill Lester and David McKew
explained that the new set of water filters are failing and they do not know
why. They discussed the different options, ideas and costs they are looking at.
Mr. Lester reiterated that they have been working with the USDA and are ready
to bid the pre-treatment facility but it looks like it will probably be January
before we will be able to get on the agenda for LGC approval.
X. NEW BUSINESS
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board adopted the Ordinance Declaring a Road Closure for a
Christmas Parade. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved the Proposed 2015 Addendum to the 1999 Town of Carthage Land
Use Plan following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mr. Robinson had already discussed code enforcement issues.
The board agreed to set November 17, 2015 as the date for the Public Hearing on
the request from Galena Witham and Freddie Grimm to rezone Parcel #00002674,
208 Dowd Street and Parcel #00002784, 206 Dowd Street, from CBD to R-10
following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI. OLD BUSINESS
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board approved submitting a NCDOT Planning Initiative Grant
application for a combined bicycle and pedestrian plan in an amount not to
exceed $36,000 and to authorize execution of the resolution in support of the
grant application. All ayes. Motion approved.
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
Paul Davis reported on the concerns of the Historical Committee. He commented
on the deterioration of the remaining buggy building and his desire to reach
out to all towns, the county, and the state and beyond to raise money for the
restoration of the building. Ms. O’Hara summarized the Planning Board and
Appearance Committee meeting minutes.
XIII. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Wilson stated that he appreciated the opportunity to attend the
conference. Commissioner Chalflinch had no comments at this time. Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy is pleased with everything moving forward. Commissioner Phillips
concurred that he enjoyed the opportunity to attend the conference.
Commissioner Barber had no comment. Mayor McGraw appreciated and enjoyed the
conference as well.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:36 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 17, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 17, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, November 17, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis, Patrol Shift Supervisor Steve Martin, Officer Monique DiLorenzo, Officer
Kyle Whitney and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Representative Allen McNeill, Jill Vang, Martin, Starnes &
Associates; Galena Witham and Roland Gilliam, concerned citizens; Historical
Committee Members Bert Patrick, Antoniette Kelly and Paul Davis.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:  
None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 20, 2015
Budget Amendment #10
VII. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Police Chief Bart Davis introduced two new police officers, Officer Monique
DiLorenzo and Officer Kyle Whitney. The board welcomed the two officers.
Jill Vang gave a presentation on the FY 2014/2015 audit. Ms. Vang reviewed the
highlights of the audit and reported that the audit had been approved by the
LGC. She stated that the audit was given an unmodified opinion which is the
highest rating available and she thanked the staff for their cooperation. Town
Manager Tom Robinson stated that the general fund did well; we were able to
keep expenses down and put some money back into the fund. Mr. Robinson pointed
out that we have had a run on the water/sewer fund and were trying to stabilize
these costs. The board requested that the manager look at the town’s percentage
of expenditures as compared to towns of similar size.
Mayor McGraw thanked Representative McNeill for attending the meeting and
requested his help in addressing/changing the tier rating system for the
county.
VIII. PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:53 p.m. Ms. O’Hara explained that
the owners of the two properties were requesting that the properties be rezoned
from CBD to R-10. Ms. O’Hara stated that Ms. Witham’s property had always been
used as residential and the Grimm property had been used as commercial but Mr.
Grimm has not been able to lease or sell it as commercial and has someone
interested in it as a residential property. Ms. Witham reported that she was
trying to refinance her home and was unable to do so because it was zoned
commercial. There was no one else present to speak on this subject. Ms. O’Hara
stated that she had not received any inquires or comments concerning the
rezoning. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:56 p.m. Following a
motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch,
the Board adopted the Resolution of Land Use Plan Consistency as it pertains to
the Witham and Grimm rezonings since the Board concludes that the described
amendment is consistent with the Town of Carthage 1999 Land Use Plan and is in
the public interest. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the Board approved the rezoning of 208 Dowd Street, Parcel ID #00002674
and 206 Dowd Street, Parcel ID #00002784 from CBD to R-10. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his Manager’s Report and reported on the status of the USDA grant/
loan and the Little River Grant/Department of Commerce issue. Mr. Robinson
requested that we set up a meeting with Representatives McNeill and Boles to
get help for relief. Mr. Robinson summarized the meeting he and Chief Tyner had
attended concerning the funding formula for fire districts, the acquisition of
the Priest Hill Road property that the DAV is working on, the audit and the
water filter autopsy. The consensus of the board was to send out the county
informational flyer about the sales tax increase as long as it was clear that
it was coming from the county not the town. Mr. Robinson advised that Rick
Fleming was meeting with the County Building Inspector about Chuck Watson’s
building and the objective is to get the building fixed. He emphasized that the
town is not involved with the disposition of the property but needs to address
the issue of people working in an unsafe building.
X. NEW BUSINESS
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board approved the final plat for the Hadley’s Ridge subdivision.
All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved awarding Anderson Smith & Wike, LLC the contract for
auditing services for the Town of Carthage for an initial period of three years
following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Roland Gilliam asked the town to consider becoming a Sister City with Marnes-
la-Coquette, the city in France where the Lafayette Escadrille memorial is
located. The consensus of the board was that the Town Manager should look into
the process and report back at the next meeting.
XI. OLD BUSINESS:
None
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
Ms. O’Hara summarized the Appearance Committee meeting minutes. Paul Davis gave
a summary of the Historical Committee meeting and reminded everyone about the
Tour of Homes. Bert Patrick explained that the Historical Committee is seeking
members from many different venues to participate in the subcommittee to raise
funds for the renovation of the buggy building.
XIII. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Barber had no comments. Commissioner Phillips thanked the citizens
for his election. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy inquired about a date for the budget
workshop. Commissioner Chalflinch had no comments. Commissioner Wilson stated
that he is proud to serve. Mayor McGraw thanked everyone. Ms. O’Hara reminded
the board about the Christmas parade and Mr. Gilliam mentioned a possible time
capsule in the old buggy building.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
DECEMBER 15, 2015
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 15, 2015
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, December 15, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Marc
Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Clerk of Court Susan Hicks, Bryan Wellborn and Neal Smith,
Neal Smith Engineering; Norma Yanez, Waste Industries; Nita Phillips,
Historical Committee Member Paul Davis and Tom Embrey, reporter for The Pilot.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor Pro Tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:  
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro
Tem Dowdy, the board approved adding the Resolution Accepting a Town Maintained
Street to the Agenda as E under New Business. All ayes. Motion carried.
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Norma Yanez from Waste Industries stated that she was at the meeting to
encourage the town to put their waste services out for bid when the current
contract expires next year.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 17, 2015
Budget Amendment #11, #12, #13
VII. OATHS OF OFFICE:  
Clerk of Court Susan Hicks administered the oath of office to recently elected
Commissioner Marc Phillips, Commissioner George H. Wilson, Jr. and reelected
Mayor Lee McGraw.
VIII. RECEPTION:  
The board recessed for a reception at 6:40 p.m.
IX. RESUME REGULAR MEETING:  
The board resumed the regular meeting at 6:53 p.m.
X. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
XI. PUBLIC HEARING:
None
XII. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Ms. O’Hara
answered questions asked concerning the manager’s report and added that the
bids on the water portion of the USDA project are due on Thursday, the first
meeting of the Tyson Jones Building Preservation Committee is scheduled for
February 1, the next step on the Little River Rural Center Grant is to meet
with the Secretary of Commerce and reported that Mr. Watson and Mr. Fleming
have done some patch work on the roof. Public Works Director Rocky Davis gave
an update on the water filters.
XIII. NEW BUSINESS
Following a brief presentation by Ms. Liles, the board approved the ABC Store
site plan as submitted following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried. Following a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the board
approved the Special Intensity Allocation to allow built upon area of 70%. All
ayes. Motion carried.
The board elected Milton T. Dowdy, Jr. as Mayor Pro Tem following a motion made
by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Following a brief discussion, the board appointed Commissioner Phillips as the
Town of Carthage delegate for the Triangle J Council of Governments and
Commissioner Wilson as the alternate. All ayes. Motion carried.
After some discussion, the board scheduled the Planning Workshop for Saturday,
January 9, 2016 at 8:00 a.m. The board agreed to work through lunch until
finished.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro
Tem Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Accepting Harper Lane as a town
maintained street. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV. OLD BUSINESS:
Since the town manager was ill and could not attend tonight’s meeting, the
board agreed to table discussion on the Open Code Violations per his request.
XV. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. O’Hara summarized the Planning Board meeting minutes. Paul Davis summarized
the Historical Committee meeting minutes.
XVI. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Barber clarified that the Planning Workshop would be held in the
Fire Department and wished everyone a Merry Christmas. Commissioner Phillips
stated his wife is happy to stay in Carthage for another four years and wished
everyone a Merry Christmas. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy inquired about the sign
ordinance and wished everyone a Merry Christmas. Commissioner Chalflinch wished
everyone a Merry Christmas. Commissioner Wilson stated that he is happy to
serve and wished everyone a Merry Christmas. Mayor McGraw remarked that the
town has great departments and wished everyone a Merry Christmas.
XVII. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XVIII. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:29 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
2016 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 9, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
PLANNING WORKSHOP
JANUARY 9, 2016
8:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Planning
Workshop on Saturday, January 9, 2016 at 8:00 a.m. in the Fire Department at
the Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and Jimmy
Chalflinch. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Rocky Davis, Assistant Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a planning workshop for FY 2016-2017.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 8:07 a.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
Mayor McGraw and Town Manager Tom Robinson thanked everyone for coming. Mr.
Robinson stated that the biggest issue we will have to consider is the water/
sewer rates and indicated that we will address code enforcement at our next
regular scheduled meeting. Mr. Robinson referenced the proposed personnel
changes and stated that he recommends all changes. Mayor McGraw asked the
department heads how they felt and all agreed to changes stating that they had
had an opportunity to supply input. The board will adopt the revised personnel
policy at the January 19 meeting. Mr. Robinson commented that we had received
good bids for the water plant/clear well and were waiting for the USDA to sign
off on the Union Church Road water line. After review of all the water/sewer
rate increase numbers and possible options, the consensus of the board was to
implement the full recommended increase.
Public Services Director Rocky Davis explained that the cemetery note has
matured and he is proposing that the town use that money to fix water, drain
and root problems, as well as pave and repave certain streets in the cemetery.
The consensus of the board was to fix the problems and do the paving.
The board took a break at 8:50 a.m. and reconvened the meeting at 9:00 a.m.
Public Services Director Rocky Davis presented his department overview and
indicated that all of his budget was committed except for $7,800 which would be
used to dip out the sewer lagoon. Mr. Davis explained that he is addressing
line leaks and trying to identify infiltration of the system and stated that we
will be able to use some of the left over grant money to fix the Pinehurst
water line. The commissioners requested a list of projects that are in the
works so that they could pass the information on to the citizens.
Police Chief Bart Davis presented his department overview and reported that
this will be the fourth fleet rotation and he will be replacing three vehicles.
He will auction off the old ones. Chief Davis commented that he will get the
cars through Phillips Ford because they are local, give him a good price and
provide a maintenance agreement. Chief Davis informed the board that his
department is using car cameras but has not yet invested in body cameras due to
certain issues they have experienced in trial runs.
Fire Chief Brian Tyner presented his department overview and shared with the
board that the Go Fund Me Page for Kyle Ferrell has raised $15,000 and Kyle’s
family has requested that all the money go to the fire department. Chief Tyner
indicated that the department would like to put the money toward the
installation of a caution light at the entrance to the driveway. There was some
discussion concerning the past history of this light installation with DOT and
the board agreed that the town should request that DOT do another study. There
was a brief discussion on the fire district rate structure.
Kathy Liles updated the board on the walking/bike trail grant and suggested
that the town should have a rudimentary plan in place, even if the grant is not
approved. Ms. Liles briefly discussed the transportation corridor and updating
the 1999 land use and downtown development plan. The board discussed code
revisions and agreed that they should be done in sections. Mr. Robinson
reported on his phone conversation with the potential buyers of Little River.
Commissioner Chalflinch had no specific comments. Commissioner Dowdy questioned
DOT maintained streets, as well as specific areas on town streets. Commissioner
Barber stated that he is glad to see sidewalks on the CIP. Commissioner Wilson
had nothing at this point. Commissioner Phillips commented on the water project
and the scenic byway. Mayor McGraw requested a bullet list for the water
increase and town projects, as well as teaming up with outside groups to
maintain trails and connect with Nick’s Creek.
The board took a break at 10:32 a.m. and reconvened the meeting at 10:44 a.m.
Mr. Robinson discussed what a CIP is and why it is needed. The board reviewed
the projects in the CIP and agreed that the Mayor should write a letter to the
County Commissioners on behalf of the Town Board addressing the Pinehurst
Avenue paving, fire district rate structure and the selling of the tax lien
for110 Old Glendon Road. Mr. Robinson gave an update on the Buggy Drive sewer
situation and the water plant filters.
Ms. Liles gave background on the sign changes and there was brief discussion on
types of signs. The board agreed to fill out a brief questionnaire on signs to
be turned in at the next board meeting. The results will be summarized and
discussed.
IV. ADJOURNMENT:
Following a closing prayer by Commissioner Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the
meeting at 12:16 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JANUARY 19, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 19, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, January 19, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch.
A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Town Attorney Al Benshoff, Code Enforcement Officer Dennis
Pinnix, Bill Lester, LKC engineering; Stan Jackson, Quality Built Homes and
Historical Committee Members Bert Patrick, Toni Kelly and Paul Davis.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Stan Jackson stated that he was there to dispute a bill that was given to
Quality Built Homes for replacement of a damaged water meter. Mr. Jackson
stated that they did not do it; he believes that the cable company did since
there were other issues with the cable company at this same time. Public
Services Director Rocky Davis sated that the meter and the box were fine when
they were put in; when he was called back the meter was all torn to pieces. The
board agreed to consider splitting the cost between the town and Quality Built
and will make a decision by next month’s meeting.
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting December 15, 2015
VI. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII. PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
reviewed his written report and added that the water sewer fund is low due to
the towns having to advance USDA money, the cost of replacing the water filters
and the cost for the mapping and survey of manholes. The USDA will reimburse
the town in February and the survey is helping the town locate manholes and
possible infiltration of the system.
IX. NEW BUSINESS
The board approved changing their regular scheduled board meeting day to the
third Monday of each month and approved the schedule as submitted following a
motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips the board set February 15, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing on
the rezoning of Kim Livengood’s property located at 850 Pinehurst Avenue,
Parcel ID #00990841 from R-20 to RA- 40. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a brief summary of the bids and contractor recommendation from Bill
Lester, the board awarded the water treatment improvement and clear well
project to ELJ Inc. for the negotiated total project price of $2,779,409.00
subject to the approval of the Local Government Commission and the USDA,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board agreed to table the Resolution for Personnel Policy Approval pending
review by the town attorney.
Following a brief explanation from Al Benshoff, the board approved adopting the
Resolution Authorizing Negotiated Purchase or Eminent Domain to Acquire
Property as it applies to the Salmon property located at 714 Pinecrest Street,
Parcel ID #00003823, following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board approved sending the proposed letter as written to the
County Commissioners. All ayes. Motion carried.
X. OLD BUSINESS:
Dennis Pinnix summarized the abated, as well as the outstanding code violations
for 2015. Mr. Benshoff summarized the process to be taken in order to abate the
violations still outstanding. The consensus of the board was that the town
should move forward with these cases.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. O’Hara summarized the Planning Board meeting minutes. Paul Davis summarized
the Historical Committee meeting minutes and Bert Patrick updated the board on
the Tyson & Jones Restoration Committee progress.
XII. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
None
XIII. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XIV. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:57 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 4, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
FEBRUARY 4, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday,
February 4, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. in the Fire Department at the Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Commissioners George H.
Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor
Lee McGraw was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara and Finance Officer Kesha Matthews.
Also present were Town Attorney Al Benshoff and Marvin Waters from Little
River.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss possible development options for
Little River.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
Town Manager Tom Robinson explained the concept of a Special Assessment
District (SAD) and explained that it is new to North Carolina. Many other
states use them and they are good if done carefully and correctly. Mr. Robinson
informed the board that there is a contract to buy Little River and the
potential buyers have requested a letter from the town indicating that they are
willing to work with them to create a SAD. Mr. Robinson stressed that there
would not be any voting tonight, this meeting was for informational purposes
only. The board will review the draft letter and approve it at their meeting on
the 15th.
Al Benshoff presented a PowerPoint which explained how SADs work and the role
that the LGC has in the process. Mr. Benshoff assured the board that the
municipality would not be responsible for repayment of the bonds from the
general fund if the developer did not fulfill their responsibilities. If the
SAD fails, the town would have to pay the legal costs to foreclose on the
property and potentially risk damage to their reputation and credit worthiness.
Mr. Benshoff confirmed that this is a very complicated process that could take
two to four years. He stressed that the letter is not a legal part of the
process and is not binding.
Mr. Robinson stated that Mayor McGraw had talked to the finance director in
Hillsborough, who is currently using a SAD, and she recommends working with the
individuals we are now talking to.
Mr. Benshoff handed out a list of the LGC recommendations and a draft copy of a
letter, copies of which are attached to these minutes and incorporated herein
by reference. Mr. Benshoff recommended making sure that the letter provides
specifics and then adopting the letter as a motion on the 15th.
Town Planner Kathy Liles stressed that there are no entitlements; the town
needs to clean up the zoning and permitting process for Little River and to
consider the best interests of the town.
Marvin Waters stated that he has been involved with Little River for many
years, knows the past history and wants to emphasize that the potential buyers
have a good track record.
IV. ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy thanked Mr. Benshoff and adjourned the meeting at 7:23 p.m.
following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________    _______________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk       Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Mayor Pro-Tem
FEBRUARY 15, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 15, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday February 15, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Artie Barber, George H. Wilson, Jr. and Jimmy
Chalflinch. A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Kim Livengood and her husband; Emily Davis, Pastor St.
Augustine’s AME Zion Church and Historical Committee Member Paul Davis.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:39 p.m.
II. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEM:  
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board approved adding discussion of the revisions to Article 5,
Amendment Procedures; Conditional Use Permits to the Agenda as D under New
Business. All ayes. Motion carried.
III. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Emily Davis stated that she wanted to talk about the road conditions at St.
Augustine’s Church. Ms. Davis explained that the road needs repair due to use
by vehicles of the people that live on that street, as well as the church and
the garbage trucks. According to Ms. Davis, the homeowners are partnering with
the church to pay for leveling the road and putting down crush and run. Ms.
Davis stated that the church does not require garbage pickup and requested that
the town end sending the garbage trucks on this street and either have the
driver walk down to pick up the trash or have the homeowners push their cans to
the end of the road. Mr. Robinson stated that the street would have to be
brought up to state standards before the town would consider taking it over and
he would look into the possibility of a CDBG grant for paving of the road. The
board directed the manager to report on his findings at the next meeting.
IV. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Planning Workshop January 9, 2016
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 19, 2016
Budget Amendments #15, #16, #19, #20, #21
V. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI. PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:49 p.m. Ms. Liles outlined the
confusion over the initial application for the rezoning of Ms. Livengood’s
properties and explained that we are now addressing the intent of the original
application. Mr. Robinson stated that the possible violations noted during the
initial rezoning have been addressed and Ms. Livengood has done a good job
cleaning up her property. Ms. O’Hara stated that she had not received any
inquires or comments concerning this rezoning. Mayor McGraw closed the Public
Hearing at 6:53 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the rezoning of Parcel ID
#00990841, 850 Pinehurst Avenue from R-20 to RA-40. All ayes. Motion carried.  
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the Board adopted the Resolution of Land Use Plan Consistency as it
pertains to the Livengood rezoning since the Board concludes that the described
amendment is consistent with the Town of Carthage 1999 Land Use Plan and is in
the public interest. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
reviewed his written report and added an update on his most recent
correspondence with the homeowners on Buggy Drive. Mr. Robinson has proposed
fixing the three units at the bottom of the hill and adding check valves on all
of the other systems. Mr. Robinson informed the board about the destruction of
the sewer pump on Hwy. 22 due to items from Pinelake that are in the system.
Mr. Robinson intends to write a letter informing them that if this happens
again, he will charge the center for the pump and require them to install a
grinder. If at that time they do not respond, he will turn their water off. Mr.
Robinson notified the board that there is $122,000 worth of back taxes that the
county is not collecting for the town and indicated that the town would retain
our attorney to collect these outstanding debts. NEW BUSINESS
The board adopted the Resolution Adopting a Revised Personnel Policy following
a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson the board adopted the Supplemental Order Authorizing the Issuance by the
Town of Carthage, North Carolina of $1,766,000 of Water and Sewer System
Revenue Bonds to Finance Improvements to the Town’s Water and Sanitary Sewer
Systems and Authorizing the Execution and Delivery of Certain Documents. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Providing for the Issuance of a
$1,766,000 Water and Sewer System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, Series 2016A.
All ayes. Motion carried.
After some discussion concerning the Born Learning Trail, the consensus of the
board was to move ahead with this opportunity.
Ms. Liles briefly reviewed the Development Code updates to the Amendment
Procedures; Conditional Use Permits. The commissioners agreed that the Planning
Board should review and then bring it back to the board to schedule a public
hearing.
VIII. OLD BUSINESS:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board approved the letter concerning the Board of Commissioners
statement of position on creating a special assessment district for the Little
River property as written. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board adopted the Ordinance Ordering the Town of Carthage Code Enforcement
Officer to Proceed to Effectuate the Purpose of the Carthage Minimum Housing
Code and G.S. §160A-443 for 110 Old Glendon Road and direct the Code
Enforcement Officer to levy civil penalties against the Owner in accordance
with the Carthage Code of Ordinances §10.99, §93-73 and §93-74, following a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
Mr. Robinson brought up the sidewalk on Rockingham Street. The board wants to
connect the sidewalk in front of the school going down the hill to McNeill
Street, as well as extend the sidewalk in front of Steve’s Restaurant down to
Food Lion. Staff will explore options and cost. Ms. O’Hara reported that John
Regan indicated that the state is still working on the DAV property request.
The board agreed that the town should send out the tax increase information
from the county with the water bills.
Mr. Robinson summarized the Restoration Committee meeting minutes. Paul Davis
passed out a copy of the Historical Committee meeting minutes.
X. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Barber had no comment. Commissioner Phillips mentioned the
disrepair of the curbs coming into town where Hwy 24/27 and Hwy 15- 501 split,
as well as placing a crosswalk on McReynolds Street in front of Fred’s. Mayor
Pro- Tem Dowdy and Commissioners Chalflinch and Wilson had no comment at this
time. Mayor McGraw thanked everyone for their work on the house fire and stated
that the staff was doing a good job knocking a lot off the list.
XI. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XII. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:57 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 21, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 21, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, March 21, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch.
A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Ellerbe Commissioner Elsie Freeman and her husband Lee; Bill
Lester, LKC engineering; Emily Davis, Pastor St. Augustine’s AME Zion Church;
Historical Committee Members Toni Kelly and Paul Davis and concerned citizens
Clayton Speer and Kevin Lewis.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Pastor Davis thanked the town for their response to her request and for
offering to split the cost of repairs. Pastor Davis indicated that the road has
been repaired and she provided a copy of the receipt. The board emphasized that
this would be a one time payment by the town for road repairs.
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 4, 2016
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 15, 2016
Minutes Board of Adjustment Special Meeting February 15, 2016
VI. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII. PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:39 p.m. Ms. O’Hara swore in Kathy
Liles and Clayton Speer. Ms. Liles requested that all documents submitted be
entered in as part of the record. Ms. Liles summarized Mr. Speer’s request for
a conditional use permit to build a bulk petroleum oil site on his property.
The property is zoned for industrial use and Fire Chief Brian Tyner indicated
that he had talked with the Fire Marshal who is all right with the plan as long
as all appropriate permits are obtained. There was no one else present to speak
and Ms. O’Hara indicated that there were no responses to the Public Hearing
notice. Mayor McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:50 p.m. Following a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the
Board approved the Conditional Use Permit for a bulk petroleum oil site
requested by Clayton Speer with the recommended conditions, a copy of which is
attached to these minutes and incorporated herein. All ayes. Motion carried.  
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:50 p.m. Ms. Liles stated that the
Planning Board recommended that the Board approve the amendments to the
Development Ordinance. There was no one present to speak and Ms. O’Hara
indicated that there were no responses to the Public Hearing notice. Mayor
McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:51 p.m. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved
the Amendments to Article 5 of the Development Ordinance “Amendment Procedures;
Conditional Use Permits”. All ayes. Motion carried.
The Board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency as pertains to the amendment to the text of Chapter 100, Town of
Carthage Development Ordinance, Article 5; Amendment Procedures; Conditional
Use Permits following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
VIII. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
reiterated that St. Augustine Church had requested help with the cost of fixing
the road and would like to keep the garbage trucks off of the road. Ms. Rosa
McKinney spoke as a resident of St. Augustine Church Road. Ms. McKinney stated
that she is not happy since she pays taxes, is disabled and shouldn’t have to
drag a heavy trash can to the road. The town will contact Republic to see if
the driver can walk up the road to pick up the can. The board tabled keeping
the trucks off the road until more information is available and the consensus
of the board was to split the cost to repair the street this one time only.
Public Works Director Rocky Davis reported on his plans to fix the drainage and
sidewalk at the elementary school. He also stated that DOT has the three lane,
curb and gutter project on Monroe Street from the courthouse to Hardee’s on
their project list. Ms. Liles reported on the 120’ monopole tower request the
town had received and then sent back with a statement of incompleteness. Mr.
Robinson advised that the bicycle/pedestrian grant information will not be
received until April so this item will be tabled until the April meeting, there
is a lot of interest in the old Walmart building, the Irish bank is not putting
any money into Little River and the closing is scheduled for April. Mr.
Robinson indicated that the school system is interested in putting a repeater
on the water tower and the Board agreed that the town manager should negotiate
terms with them.
IX. NEW BUSINESS
The board adopted the Ordinance Declaring a Road Closure for the Buggy Festival
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
The Board tabled the placement of a metal freedom monument until next month’s
meeting.
The Board agreed to schedule a Budget Workshop for Saturday, April 23 at 8:00
a.m. in the Fire Department.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board approved awarding the water main extension improvement
project to ELJ, Inc. for their low bid price of $403,165.00 subject to the
approval of the LGC and the USDA. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved the updated USDA water projects budget as presented
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved the Residential Project Inspection Plan as presented
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a brief explanation from Ms. Liles, the board approved the fee
schedule adjustments as presented following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
X. OLD BUSINESS:
The board tabled the bicycle/pedestrian grant until the April meeting.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Antoniette Kelly summarized the Restoration Committee minutes and Paul Davis
summarized the Historical Committee minutes. Ms. O’Hara summarized the Planning
Board and Appearance Committee minutes.
XII. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Wilson thanked Public Works for their work during the water outage
and stated that the Mural Committee is looking for a new chair. Commissioner
Chalflinch acknowledged that he appreciates how the town handles problems.
Mayor McGraw commented that he appreciates the town addressing the sidewalks
and it was stated that Duke Energy would like citizens to call their office
directly to make any complaints about tree trimming cleanup. Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy discussed two houses that he would like addressed concerning possible
violations. Commissioner Phillips requested that his agenda packet be sent
electronically from now on. Commissioner Barber commented that all departments
are doing a wonderful job and he has seen many people taking pictures of the
murals.
XIII. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIV. CLOSED SESSION
The board moved into closed session at 8:10 p.m. to discuss a personnel matter,
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:18
p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
XV. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:18 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Mayor Pro-Tem
APRIL 18, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 18, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, April 18, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Commissioners Marc Phillips,
Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. Mayor Lee McGraw
was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Assistant Public Services
Director Kevin Kimball, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Reverend Jerry Dowdy and Historical Committee Member Paul
Davis.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 21, 2016
Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session March 21, 2016
Budget Amendments #26. #27
VI. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII. PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
indicated that we are struggling with the budget and do not have all the
figures yet but will discuss the proposed budget on Saturday. Mr. Robinson
stated that the St. Augustine Street residents were notified that the issue
concerning their street would be discussed at the meeting tonight but none of
them were in attendance. The consensus of the board was that the town talk to
Reverend Davis and agree to watch this issue for a year before taking any
action since removing the garbage trucks from the road would be a hardship on
the church as well as the handicapped resident. The board agreed that they
would like to tour the Sanford Buggy Factory Building on Saturday. There was a
brief discussion on sewer flow and Ms. Liles summarized the scenic byway map
and meeting. A copy of the map is attached to these minutes and incorporated
herein by reference.
IX. NEW BUSINESS
The board set May 16, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing on the rezoning
of David Frye’s property located at 4925 US 15-501 Hwy, Parcel ID #00002381
from RA-40 to HCD, following a motion by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded
by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board approved the Final Subdivision Plat for Forest Ridge
Phase 3B. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board approved the Emergency Water Purchase Agreement between the
East Moore Water District, county water district and the Town of Carthage. All
ayes. Motion carried.
X. OLD BUSINESS:
The board approved signing the agreement with the North Carolina Department of
Transportation for the Bicycle and Pedestrian Grant and authorize execution of
the resolution in support of the grant application following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. O’Hara summarized the Restoration Committee and Appearance Committee
minutes. Paul Davis summarized the Historical Committee minutes and the board
approved the Historical Committee brochure.
XII. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy thanked all of the committees for the work they are doing.
Commissioner Barber stated that he is looking forward to the Buggy Festival.
Commissioner Phillips invited everyone to visit his booth at the Buggy
Festival. Commissioner Chalflinch thanked the town employees, the committees
and stated that the board gets along well with each other. Commissioner Wilson
indicated that he is appreciative of the hard work of all the employees.
XIII. CLOSING PRAYER:
Reverend Jerry Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIV. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy adjourned the meeting at 7:24 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw - Mayor
APRIL 23, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
BUDGET WORKSHOP
APRIL 23, 2016
8:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting/Budget
Workshop on Saturday, April 23, 2016 at 8:00 a.m. in the Fire Department at the
Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and Jimmy
Chalflinch. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Assistant Public Services Director Kevin Kimball,
Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a FY 2016-2017 budget workshop.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 8:02 a.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
Town Manager Tom Robinson opened the meeting with reference to his budget memo
and asked if any of the commissioners had any questions for the department
heads. The board discussed vehicle needs and options with the police chief and
the fire chief. Mr. Robinson discussed the Proposed Fund Summaries and
Important Changes in the Proposed FY 2016/2017 Budget.
After much discussion concerning the sewer numbers, the board approved
appropriating an amount not to exceed $68,000 to be transferred from the
general fund to the enterprise fund to examine 22,020 linear feet of sewer line
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried. The board agreed to wait to make a decision
on the water/sewer rates until after the evaluation is done. The board
requested that a letter be sent to all residents informing them of the budget
issues.
Mr. Robinson explained the possibility of using USDA funds to buy back up water
filters. He explained that the town would have to pay for the filters up front
and then get reimbursed. Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch the board approved appropriating and
transferring from the general fund to the enterprise fund $75,750 to purchase
96 water filters and accessories. Four ayes and one nay (Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy).
Motion passed.
The board discussed the loss of the SAFER grant and possible options, which
include the funding amount from the county which has not yet been received. The
board requested a bullet list of information on this topic so that they can
talk directly to the county commissioners. Mr. Robinson indicated that the town
has been researching grants without much success.
Ms. O’Hara proposed increasing the cemetery plot rates. The board decided to
think about the rates as well as consult with the town attorney on other
cemetery issues. It was suggested that the town send out a letter to the
residents soliciting funds for the cemetery. The board agreed to starting a
business registration program charging an annual $20.00 fee as well as
including a $2,000 donation to the Buggy Festival in FY 2016/2017.
A follow up budget meeting was set for Monday, June 6 at 6:00 p.m. at the
McDonald Building. The Public Hearing on the budget will be held at the regular
scheduled meeting on June 20.
IV. ADJOURNMENT:
Following a closing prayer by Commissioner Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the
meeting at 10:27 a.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Mayor Pro- Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 16, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 16, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, May 16, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Artie Barber, George Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch.
A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services Director Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were residents Frank Shepherd, Tom Prim, Becky Prim, Appearance
Committee member Nancy McKenzie and Historical Committee Member Paul Davis.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Frank Shephard explained his proposed idea to open a private club in the
basement below the UPS store which is located in the Central Business District
(CBD). Mr. Shephard indicated that it would be a small upscale establishment
and he intends to use price to control the crowd. He indicated that he would
like to provide some type of entertainment and would work within the town
ordinance guidelines. Mr. Shephard stated that he would not exclude any group
of people and would be aware of security considerations. Chief Davis indicated
he did not see any problems as long as it was managed well. Ms. Liles indicated
that the town would work on a text amendment that might be a bit more
restrictive.
Paul Davis indicated that he was standing in for his wife, Pastor Emily Davis,
of St. Augustine Church since she had a conflict with the meeting time. Mr.
Davis read a statement from his wife which thanked the commissioners for their
help to bring the road up to standards. Pastor Davis’ statement indicated that
the weight of the garbage trucks is causing the road damage since they are
already seeing minor depressions in the road since the work was done in March
so they are requesting that the trucks be taken off the road immediately and
they would also like to request reconsideration of the requirement that the
church pay for garbage service that it does not use. There was some discussion
on alternate options for trash pickup. Mr. Davis emphasized that the homeowners
do not want to help financially in the upkeep of the road, the church fixed the
damage and the only way to stop the damage is to stop the trucks and it is Ms.
McKinney’s problem to figure out how to get rid of her trash.
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 18, 2016
Minutes Board of Commissioners Budget Workshop April 23, 2016
Budget Amendments #28. #29, #30, #31, #33, #34, #35
VI. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII. PUBLIC HEARING:
None
VIII. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report and indicated that he would be attending the Supreme
Court hearing for the impact fee lawsuit in Morganton tomorrow and stated that
the food pantry lease is up for renewal and we would discuss this subject at
our next meeting.
IX. NEW BUSINESS
The board appointed Becky Prim to the Appearance Committee for a three year
term to expire June 2019, following a motion by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board appointed Tom Prim to the Appearance Committee for a
three year term to expire June 2019. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a brief discussion on costs and fuel prices, the board approved awarding
Republic Services the contract for the Town of Carthage’s Solid Waste and
Recycling Collection Services for an initial period of five years, following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Accepting a Town Maintained Street for
the remainder of Cashew Loop as shown on the plat of Phase 3B. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Ms. Liles reported that Chris Lassiter, chair of the Planning Board had
volunteered to be a Bicycle/Pedestrian Grant Committee Member and stated that
it would be a good idea to have a commissioner on the committee as well.
Commissioner Wilson volunteered. Ms. Liles also asked the board to recommend
names of any other interested citizens.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board accepted the Contract to Audit Accounts for the Town of
Carthage for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2016. All ayes. Motion carried.
X. OLD BUSINESS:
Following a statement by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy that the Needmore community is
satisfied with the proposed map and unanimously agreed on the proposed Carthage
Byway route, the board adopted the Resolution Adopting the Proposed Carthage
Byway for Carthage, North Carolina, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board set June 20, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing on the rezoning
of David Frye’s property located at 4925 US 15-501 Hwy, Parcel ID #00002381
from RA-40 to HCD, following a motion by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following discussion on the two visits to the renovated Buggy Factory in
Sanford, the consensus of the board was that the manager should pursue having
Progressive Development Company come take a look at the old Tyson & Jones Buggy
Building for possible consideration of their participation in the renovation of
this building. 
Ms. Liles reviewed the code enforcement update and after some discussion on
placing liens on the properties, the board agreed to award three of the
projects to Dawn to Dusk and the one for the mobile home to Choo’s.
Mr. Robinson summarized his budget memo and the board indicated their consensus
on the reduction of the charge for garbage to $10.99 per month, as well as the
increase in cemetery plot fees to $500 for in town residents and $750 for out
of town. Mr. Robinson reported that he is meeting with the County Manager on
Wednesday to further discuss fire rates and stated that if we find any
significant infiltration we may be able to lower the water and sewer rates.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
The board reviewed the committee and Planning Board minutes.
XII. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Barber remarked that he enjoyed the Buggy Festival. Commissioner
Phillips brought up the silhouette and board feedback was agreement on placing
one at town hall. He also stated that everyone did a good job on the festival.
Commissioner Chalflinch thanked everyone. Commissioner Wilson piggybacked on
the Buggy Festival responses and informed the board that he is the new Mural
Committee chair. Mayor McGraw agreed that everyone did a good job on the
festival and discussed Doug Brown’s offer to sell a buggy to the town. The
board agreed to consider the buggy sale at the next meeting.
XIII. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XIV. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:32 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw - Mayor
JUNE 20, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 20, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, June 20, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips and George Wilson. A quorum. Commissioners Jimmy
Chalflinch and Artie Barber were absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Frank Sheppard, Code Enforcement Officer Dennis Pinnix and
Historical Committee and Restoration Committee member Toni Kelly.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 16, 2016
Write off of 2011 Delinquent Water Accounts
Budget Amendments #36. #37, #41
PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:32 p.m. Ms. Liles outlined the
request from David Frye to rezone the property located at 4925 Hwy 15-501 from
RA-40 to HCD. There was no one present to speak on the rezoning. Mayor McGraw
closed the public hearing at 6:36 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, the Board approved the rezoning
of 4925 US Hwy 15-501 Hwy, Parcel ID 00002381 from RA-40 to HCD. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
The Board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency as pertains to the amendment identified as the Frye Rezoning
following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:37 p.m. Ms. Liles summarized the
request from Frank Sheppard to amend the ordinance to allow for private clubs
in the CBD. Ms. Liles reported that staff had worked with Mr. Sheppard to
present regulations that were conservative in nature and at a second meeting,
after reviewing the proposed ordinance, the Planning Board agreed to recommend
that the Board of Commissioners approve the text amendment. Mr. Sheppard
answered questions concerning his request. Mayor McGraw closed the public
hearing at 6:49 p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Ordinance Amending
the Town of Carthage Code of Ordinances Land Development Regulations with
Regard to Private Clubs as presented. All ayes. Motion carried. 
The Board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency as pertains to An Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Code of
Ordinances Land Development Regulations with Regard to Private Clubs following
a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:50 p.m. Mr. Robinson presented the
budget and stated that there would not be any tax increase, there would be a
substantial water/sewer increase, an increase in cemetery plot fees and a new
business registration fee program. There was no one present to speak on the
proposed budget. Mayor McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:55 p.m. Following
a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the
Board approved the 2016-2017 Budget and Budget Ordinance as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried. 
TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report and informed the board that Joni Martin from Progressive
Development Company had visited the buggy building this morning. The board
discussed the right of way mowing issue and approved supplementing town
personnel with part time help until the end of the fiscal year. The board will
revisit this topic in July.
NEW BUSINESS
The board reappointed Max Muse to the Planning Board for a three year term
contingent on the approval of the County Board of Commissioners, following a
motion by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board reappointed Bob Hunt to the Planning Board contingent on the
approval of the County Board of Commissioners. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board reappointed Bonnie Brown to the Appearance Committee for a three year
term to expire June 2019, following a motion by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board reappointed Renee Brooks to the Appearance Committee for a
three year term to expire June 2019. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board reappointed Dora Anne Maness to the Historical Committee for a three
year term to expire June 2019, following a motion by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board appointed Christopher Nance to the Historical Committee for a
three year term to expire June 2019. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board set July 18, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing on the amendment
of the Town of Carthage Code of Ordinances Land Development Regulations with
Regard to Split Jurisdiction, Permit Choice and Design Standards and the
Ordinance Pertaining to Beekeeping, following a motion by Commissioner Phillips
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Liles outlined the highlights of the proposed nuisance ordinance revisions.
After a brief discussion, the board agreed to hold off on approval of these
amendments and to discuss again at their July meeting.
OLD BUSINESS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board agreed to extend the lease with the Food Pantry as recommended
(extend lease for a period of one year in order for the Food Pantry to obtain
its 501c(3) non-profit status, then enter lease with the corporation to run the
Food Pantry for a three to five year period with automatic extensions as long
as the pantry being operated successfully). All ayes. Motion carried.
Mr. Pinnix provided a PowerPoint presentation on possible properties to be
prioritized for the next round of minimum housing code enforcement violations.
The consensus of the board was to initially move forward on all of the
properties to see if we can get voluntary compliance.
Following a brief discussion, the board agreed to purchase the Tyson & Jones
buggy from Doug Brown at a cost of $1,700.00 following a motion made by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board agreed that the town should pursue finding a place to display all of
the buggies that it owns.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:   
The board reviewed the committee and Planning Board minutes.
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Phillips thanked the police and EMT personnel for the professional
job they did when his wife had an accident in their yard. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
thanked the town employees for everything that they do and explained that his
passion for issues comes from the fact that he is committed to working for the
people of Carthage. Commissioner Wilson requested clarification on a road
issue, thanked police, fire and EMS for the handling of the situation at his
church and discussion of the mural committee meeting at the McDonald Building.
Mayor McGraw thanked the board for their decision on the buggy and expressed
his desire for the continuation of the buggy displays at the festival.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
ADJORNMENT: Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:52 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw - Mayor
JULY 18, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 18, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, July 18, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch,
Artie Barber and George Wilson. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.
was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services Director Rocky Davis, Assistant Public
Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner.
Also present were LaQueena Balsar, her daughter and Jaymie Baxley, reporter for
The Pilot newspaper.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 20, 2016
Budget Amendments #1. #2, #3
PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:34 p.m. Ms. Liles summarized the
proposed amendments. There was no one present to speak on the issues. Mayor
McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:40 p.m. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board adopted
the Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Code of Ordinances Land Development
Regulations with Regard to Split Jurisdiction, Permit Choice and Design
Standards. All ayes. Motion carried. 
The Board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency as pertains to An Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Code of
Ordinances Land Development Regulations with Regard to Split Jurisdiction,
Permit Choice and Design Standards following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board adopted the Ordinance Pertaining to Beekeeping. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
The Board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency as pertains to An Ordinance Pertaining to Beekeeping following a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All
ayes. Motion carried.
TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report and updated the board on his work concerning the renewal
of the cell phone tower contract. Mr. Robinson suggested that a planning
meeting be scheduled to discuss what the town is doing, where the commissioners
want to go and priorities of the board. The commissioners requested that a
review of the manger be done at the same time.
NEW BUSINESS
The board approved that the members of the Board of Commissioners should be
offered the option of participation in the Town of Carthage dental and/or
vision coverage and that the premium be paid by the official, following a
motion by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board requested that the option of offering medical
coverage through First Carolina Care be discussed with the provider again.  
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board set August 15, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing on
the text amendments to the Town of Carthage Development Code with regard to
Child Care Provisions. All ayes. Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS:
Following a brief discussion, the board adopted the Ordinance Amending the Code
of Ordinances of the Town of Carthage, following a motion by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. Three ayes and one no
(Commissioner Barber). Motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:   
The board reviewed the Restoration Committee and Planning Board minutes.
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Wilson stated that he is relieved that the town is working on a
possible solution for the Balsar situation. Commissioner Chalflinch had nothing
at this time. Commissioner Phillips stated that the parade had gone well and
the flowers and mowing look good. Commissioner Barber had no comment. Mayor
McGraw asked Jaymie Baxley, the new reporter for The Pilot to introduce
himself, stated that the silhouette is in and Public Works is working on it,
and thanked everyone especially those employees working in the heat. Mr.
Robinson informed the board that the town was going to move forward on the
demolition of 110 Old Glendon Road and work with Habitat on the possibility of
their acquiring the property.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:25 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw - Mayor
AUGUST 15, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 15, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, August 15, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch and Artie Barber. A quorum.
Commissioner George Wilson arrived at approximately 6:45 p.m.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Rocky Davis, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were LaQueena and Phillip Balsar and Jaymie Baxley, reporter for
The Pilot newspaper.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 18, 2016
Budget Amendments #4. #5
PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:34 p.m. Ms. Balsar summarized her
request and offered to answer any questions. There was no one else present to
speak on this issue. Mayor McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:36 p.m.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy, the Board adopted the Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Code
of Ordinances Land Development Regulations with Regard to Child Care Provisions
as presented. All ayes. Motion carried. 
The Board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency as pertains to An Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Code of
Ordinances Land Development Regulations with Regard to Child Care Provisions
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report and updated the board on the meeting scheduled with
Little River on August 26. The consensus of the board was to have staff work on
a false alarm ordinance, as well as research further cell phone tower
provisions. Mr. Robinson updated the board on the buggy building and stated
that Bert Patrick is working hard to find funds. Mr. Robinson confirmed that
Dollar General is moving into the old Walmart store and outlined the plan for
the Buggy Drive sewer upgrade.
NEW BUSINESS
The board discussed the NCLM conference and Ms. O’Hara requested that any
commissioners interested in attending should let her know as soon as possible.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board set September 19, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing
on the text amendments to the Town of Carthage Development Code with regard to
Cell Towers. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Liles outlined the need to enhance our Junk Vehicle Ordinance and briefly
reviewed the highlights of the sample ordinance provided. Ms. Liles indicated
that we would present the proposed Carthage version at their next meeting.
OLD BUSINESS:
The board adopted the Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Code of
Ordinances as it Pertains to Business Licensing as presented, following a
motion by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All
ayes. Motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:   
The board reviewed the Restoration Committee, Appearance Committee and Planning
Board minutes.
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Wilson apologized for his tardiness. Commissioner Chalflinch had
nothing. Commissioner Barber had nothing at this time. Commissioner Phillips
informed everyone about the Board of Elections Public Hearing tomorrow
concerning early voting. Mayor Pro-Tem informed the board that he will be out
of town for the next meeting and inquired about progress on the private club.
Mayor McGraw announced that this would be Public Works Director Rocky Davis’
last meeting due to his retirement and he thanked him for his service.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:09 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw - Mayor
SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, September 19, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch,
George Wilson and Artie Barber. A quorum. Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy was
absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Assistant Public Services Director Kevin Kimball,
Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Roland Gilliam, Felice Schillaci, Jim Wiltjer, Robert
Wittmann, two concerned citizens and Jaymie Baxley, reporter for The Pilot
newspaper.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Robert Wittmann, Moore County Health Department Director introduced himself and
stated that he lives at 171 Fox Run Lane which is in the Carthage ETJ. Mr.
Wittmann presented background information on amateur radio usage in the county
and explained that the antennas are usually under 90 feet and these radios are
widely used as emergency communication. Mr. Wittmann stated that there are many
stations in homes around the county and he requested that the town look
favorably on this usage when looking at their wireless telecommunication
facilities ordinance. Mr. Wittmann presented a copy of House Bill 1340, a copy
which is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by reference,
requiring city and county ordinances regulating antennas to reasonably
accommodate amateur radio communications.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting August 15, 2016
Budget Amendments #6, #7
PUBLIC APPEARANCE
Roland Gilliam, Felice Schillaci and Jim Wiltjer reported on their ten day trip
to Flavy-Le-Martel, France. The gentlemen gave a brief background on the town
and indicated that the mayor of Flavy-Le-Martel had expressed an interest in
becoming a sister city to Carthage. Mr. Schillaci requested that the town
approve participation in the sister city program and appoint a person to work
with them on the application. The cost to become a sister city member is $145
per year and there is also a one time cost of approximately $1,200 for signs.
PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:52 p.m. Town Manager Tom Robinson
stated that the staff had not yet received all of the information needed to
finish the proposed ordinance. Mayor McGraw recessed the Public Hearing until
October 17, 2016 at 6:30 p.m.
TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report. After some discussion, the board agreed to hold a
retreat on December 3 at 8:00 a.m. in the fire department. The consensus of the
board was to implement the police vehicle take home policy.
NEW BUSINESS
The board approved setting October 17, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing
on the amendment to the Town of Carthage Development Ordinance with regard to
convenience stores, following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board adopted the Ordinance Amending the Code of Ordinances to
Repeal the Collection of Impact Fees. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved purchasing the vacuum truck subject to its satisfactory
performance during a test, following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch
and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS:
The board adopted the Resolution Amending the Personnel Policy as it pertains
to benefit coverage for elected officials, following a motion by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved appointing Roxanne Elliott, Matt Garner, Vicky Strider, Ken
Howell, Chris Lassiter, George Wilson, Alan Terry, Roger Leeson, Marvin Waters,
Travis Morgan and Betsy Kane to the Town of Carthage Bicycle and Pedestrian
Advisory Committee, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded
by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a brief discussion, the board approved the selection of McGill Associates
as contractor to design a bicycle pedestrian plan for the town, following a
motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes. Motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:   
The board reviewed the Restoration Committee, Planning Board, Appearance
Committee and Historical Committee minutes.
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Barber stated he was ok. Commissioner Phillips reminded everyone
about the Veterans Day events. Commissioner Chalflinch stated he was good.
Commissioner Wilson informed everyone about the voter registration event.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Barber gave the closing prayer.
ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:25 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw - Mayor
OCTOBER 17, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 17, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, October 17, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Commissioners
Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch, and Artie Barber. A quorum. Commissioner
George Wilson arrived at approximately 6:41 p.m.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Assistant Public Services
Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Restoration Committee Chairperson Bert Patrick, committee
members Betsy Pilson, Greg Pilson and Jaymie Baxley, reporter for The Pilot
newspaper.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting September 19, 2016
Budget Amendments #8, #9, #10
PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw cancelled the Public Hearing on Wireless Telecommunications
Facilities
TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report. Mr. Robinson stated that the staff did a wonderful job
with the hurricane clean up. Mr. Kimball reported that Public Works is cleaning
up as quickly as they can. Both Police Chief Davis and Fire Chief Tyner
emphasized the good team work between all three departments. Mr. Robinson
informed the board that the town is in the process of recruiting an Assistant
Public Services Director.
NEW BUSINESS
The board approved awarding the sewer project to Terry’s Plumbing and
Utilities, Inc. for the modified total project price of $523,000 subject to the
approval of the Local Government Commission and the USDA, following a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board adopted the Supplemental Order Authorizing the Issuance
by the Town of Carthage, North Carolina of $523,000 of Water and Sewer System
Revenue Bonds to Finance Improvements to the Town’s Water and Sanitary Sewer
Systems and Authorizing the Execution and Delivery of Certain Documents in
Connection Therewith. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution Providing for the Issuance of a
$523,000 Water and Sewer System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, Series 2016B.
All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved the Records Retention Schedule Amendments pertaining to 911
calls received at texts and body worn camera legislation effective October 1,
2016, following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Liles summarized the proposed sign regulations and informed the board that
the majority of the changes are due to recent Supreme Court decisions. After
brief discussion where the board indicated that they agreed with regulating
signs on vehicles, the board directed staff to publicize the proposed ordinance
to make sure that the public was aware of the proposed changes and set January
17, 2017 as the date for the Public Hearing, following a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Due to the Martin Luther King holiday, the board changed their regular meeting
date from Monday, January 16, 2017 to Tuesday, January17, 2017, following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board adopted the Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Code of
Ordinances with Regard to Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Vehicles. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board adopted the Ordinance Declaring a Road Closure for a
Christmas Parade. All ayes. Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS:
The board approved setting November 21, 2016 as the date for the Public Hearing
on the amendment to the Town of Carthage Development Ordinance with regard to
convenience stores, following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded
by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:   
The board reviewed the Appearance Committee and Planning Board minutes. Bert
Patrick provided an update on the Restoration Committee’s play production.
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Barber thanked the town staff for their work during the hurricane.
Mayor McGraw commented that he appreciates everything that everyone does for
the town. Commissioner Phillips reported that the Lighthouse Church of God is
collecting items for people affected by the hurricane. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
thanked the staff for their work on the ordinances. Commissioner Chalflinch
thanked everyone for working together. Commissioner Wilson apologized for being
late to the meeting and piggybacked accolades to the town staff.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 21, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 21, 2016
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, November 21, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Commissioners
Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson and Artie Barber. A quorum. Commissioner Marc
Phillips was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Kevin Kimball, Assistant Public Services Director Allen Smith, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were citizen Denny Hendrick and Jaymie Baxley, reporter for The
Pilot newspaper.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:44 p.m.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting October 17, 2016
Budget Amendments #11, #13
PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:46 p.m. Ms. Liles stated that we
were adding a definition of convenience store to the Code of Ordinances. No one
was present to speak on this item. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:
47 p.m.
The board adopted the Ordinance Amending the Town of Carthage Development
Ordinance with Regard to Convenience Stores as presented, following a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes.
Motion carried.
The board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency as it pertains to Convenience Stores, following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion
carried.
TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Public Services
Director Kevin Kimball introduced Allen Smith, new Assistant Public Services
Director. Fire Chief Brian Tyner reported on the firefighters that had gone out
to the western part of the state to help fight the wild fires. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report. The consensus of the board was to go ahead and research
prices for a reach mower and then during the budget process add another full
time person to run this equipment and assist with cleanup activities. Mr.
Robinson informed the board of the situation on Buggy Drive and stated that he
was checking to see if we could start the project now, prior to approval by the
USDA, and get reimbursed once they give their approval. Due to two board
members being out of town, the board cancelled the December 3 retreat date and
requested that staff pick two possible dates in January to reschedule.
NEW BUSINESS
The board approved the Limited English Proficiency Language Access Plan (LAP)
for the Town of Carthage as written, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board accepted the request from the Disabled American Veterans
to terminate the sublease agreement with the Town of Carthage for the property
located at 1020 Priest Hill Road. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board approved the manager notifying the state of the town’s
intention to terminate the lease agreement with the state for the property
located at 1020 Priest Hill Road due to the relocation of the DAV to another
location. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved appointing Connie Marion to the Historical Committee for a
three year term to expire June 2019, following a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved the Agreement for Comprehensive Bicycle and Pedestrian
Planning Services subject to suggested attorney comments and DOT approval,
following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board approved cancelling the December 2016 board meeting and
approved the revised schedule of regular meetings for 2016. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board adopted the Resolution to Adopt the Cape Fear Regional
Hazard Mitigation Plan. All ayes. Motion carried.
The board approved the Town of Carthage Standard Procedures Tuition Assistance
Program as written, following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded
by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS:
None
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:   
The board reviewed the Restoration Committee and Historical Committee minutes.
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Barber wished everyone a Happy Thanksgiving and stated that he is
hearing good comments about the town. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy piggybacked on
Commissioner Barber’s comments and emphasized that the police department should
watch out for themselves. Commissioner Chalflinch wished all a Happy
Thanksgiving. Commissioner Wilson commented on how much he enjoyed the play and
all the support. Chief Davis thanked Mayor McGraw and Commissioner Wilson for
their contribution to his bail.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:27 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
DECEMBER 22, 2016
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
DECEMBER 22, 2016
11:30 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on Thursday,
December 22, 2016 at 11:30 a.m. at the Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Marc Phillips and Jimmy Chalflinch. A
quorum. Commissioner Artie Barber was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara and Finance Officer Kesha Matthews.
The purpose of the meeting was to appoint a town representative(s) for the FEMA
reimbursement program, appoint Triangle J delegate and alternate and discuss
participation in the Sister City program.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 11:30 a.m.
INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
The board agreed to designate Finance Officer Kesha Matthews as the Primary
Agent and Assistant Police Chief Heath McKenzie as the Secondary Agent to act
as agents of the town to execute and file applications for Federal and/or State
assistance for services provided during and after Hurricane Matthew, following
a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the board reappointed Commissioner Phillips as the 2017 Town of
Carthage delegate for the Triangle J Council of Governments. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the board reappointed Commissioner Wilson as the 2017 Town of
Carthage alternate delegate for the Triangle J Council of Governments. All
ayes. Motion carried.
After some discussion, the board decided to table the Sister City Program item
until the January meeting. The consensus of the board was that they would like
the town to be involved in the program but prior to joining, research needs to
be done to find someone to promote the program and get other groups involved.
CLOSING PRAYER:  
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor McGraw closed the meeting at 11:49 a.m.
_______________________________    _______________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk       Lee McGraw, Mayor
2017 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 17, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 17, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, January 17, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips and Artie Barber. A quorum. Commissioners George
Wilson and Jimmy Chalflinch were absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Kevin Kimball, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were Felice Schillaci, concerned citizens Roland Gilliam, Johnny
Smith, Chuck Nunnery, Wes Caddell, Wayne Caddell and Jaymie Baxley, reporter
for The Pilot newspaper.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, the board approved adding budget amendment #18 to the agenda under item
VI approval of consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Mr. Schillaci provided a statement of advocacy, a copy of which is attached to
the minutes and incorporated herein by reference, for participation in the
Sister Cities program. Ms. Liles gave a brief report on where the town stands
in obtaining commitment from others to assist with the program. Mr. Gilliam
stated that it would be good for the community. All involved agreed that the
next step should be to schedule an informal meeting with those interested and
report back to the board at their February meeting. Mr. Gilliam reported that
his Bingo games are raising money for the museum and he will be holding a
museum dedication on March 19 which will be the 100 year anniversary of the
death of James McConnell.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes Board of Adjustment Special Meeting November 21, 2016
Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting November 21, 2016
Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting December 22, 2016
Budget Amendments #14, #15, #16, #17, #18
VII. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII. PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:46 p.m. Ms. Liles thanked the board
and stated that staff appreciated the time provided to do a test run on the new
ordinance. Staff was able to see some items that needed adjustment and were
able to make additional modifications to the draft ordinance. Due to the
recommended changes, the ordinance will need to be taken back to the Planning
Board. No one present indicated a desire to speak on this item. Mayor McGraw
closed the Public Hearing at 7:00 p.m. The board tabled this item until the
Planning Board is able to review the revisions.
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
reviewed his written report and reiterated that the water plant improvements
are expected to be completed this month and stated that he would like to have a
dedication once they are completed. The board agreed to set Saturday, February
18 for a half day Planning/Budget Retreat. Based on the board’s request, Mr.
Robinson agreed to set up a meeting with David McKew and Bill Lester to update
the board on the water issues and indicated that we are still working on
getting the garage removed from the property on Old Glendon Road.
X. NEW BUSINESS
The board approved the submitted schedule of regular meetings following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes. Motion carried.
XI. OLD BUSINESS:
None
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
The board reviewed the Historical Committee minutes.
XIII. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Barber thanked the departments for their work during the ice
storm. Commissioner Phillips wished everyone a good, happy new year. Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy thanked Public Services Director Kevin Kimball for doing a good job.
Mayor McGraw stated that things are moving along, he is concerned about the
town staff, he thanked Ms. O’Hara for a good job on the Buggy Festival and
thanked Mr. Baxley for The Pilot’s coverage of the town meetings. Mr. Robinson
reported that he was being appointed to the courthouse facility committee.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XV. ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:22 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 20, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, February 20, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, George Wilson, Jimmy Chalflinch and Artie Barber.
A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Assistant Public Services
Director Allen Smith, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were David McKew, SUEZ Water; Ken Anderson, Anderson, Smith &
Wike; Felice Schillaci, concerned citizens Roland Gilliam, Claudette Dowdy,
Jerry and Marilyn Patterson, Belinda Trumbo and Jaymie Baxley, reporter for The
Pilot newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
A. Mr. Gilliam stated that he is planning the museum dedication for Sunday,
March 19 at 3:00 p.m. in the Fidelity Bank parking lot. Mr. Schillaci reported
that Flavy-le-Martel will be celebrating as well and he requested that a
representative from the town be available to Skype will their mayor at 5:00
a.m. on March 19. Mr. Schillaci expressed his excitement about the Sister City
program and thanked Ms. Liles for her help.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting January 17, 2017
B.   Budget Amendment #20
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE
A.   Terry Gaar was not present at the meeting. Staff will reschedule.
B.   Ken Anderson summarized the FY 2015/2016 audit and stated that there was
an increase in the fund balance. Mr. Anderson explained that the water and
sewer funds were split this year and there was a loss in both of these accounts
due to one time expenditures. He stressed that the report received an
unmodified opinion, which is good, was turned in on time and accepted by the
LGC. Mr. Anderson explained that the large expenditures have a big effect on a
small municipality but overall everything looks good.
C.   David McKew confirmed that the water plant improvements have been under
construction for a while now and we are in the final stages of adjustment. Mr.
McKew passed out pictures comparing water taken before the new unit was in use
and after, a copy which is attached to these minutes and incorporated herein by
reference. Mr. McKew reported that the unit is currently running at 50%
capacity and the chlorine has already been reduced by 50%. The new clear well
is a smaller design that is constantly mixing itself which will influence
storage and treat ability. Mr. McKew explained that there are a lot of
different factors that influence the taste of the water including corrosion in
cast iron pipes and flushing the system. Mr. Lester commended SUEZ on doing a
great job with the transition and Mr. Robinson indicated that the town will
develop a good flushing program and search for grant money to loop lines.
VIII. PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
passed out the draft agenda for Saturday and asked the commissioners to review
it. Mr. Robinson stated that he felt much better about the audit after meeting
with the people from the Treasurer’s office and the auditor. Mr. Robinson
reviewed his report and stated that the antique shop on Parks Street was
approved years ago and the ordinance needs to be updated to exclude the sale
and storage of items outside and then enforced.
X. NEW BUSINESS
A.   The board approved issuing Jerry and Marilyn Patterson a six month
temporary permit to reside in an RV at 920 Currie Street while their house is
being built following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Mr. McGraw withdrew his request for a temporary permit to reside in an RV.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the board adopted the Ordinance Declaring a Road Closure
for the Buggy Festival. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board adopted the Ordinance for the Control of
Backflow and Cross Connections for the Town of Carthage. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E.   The board approved adopting the Resolution in Support of a Sister City
Relationship between Carthage, North Carolina and Flavy-le-Martel, France
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried. The consensus of the board was that the town
would pay the $175 annual fee to participate in the program and would seek
contributions to pay for the signs.
F.   Ms. Liles summarized the draft Ordinance with Regard to Providing
Residential Use in the Downtown and Creating a Downtown Overlay District. The
consensus of the board was that this should be pursued and the draft ordinance
taken to the Planning Board. Since there have been two interested parties
requesting this use, the board set March 20, 2017 as the date for the Public
Hearing on the amendment to the Town of Carthage Development Ordinance with
Regard to Residential use in the Central Business District, following a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes.
Motion carried.
G.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board approved increasing the water deposit to $100.00
and requiring a tenant to provide a valid copy of their lease. The town will
open a water account only for a person who is named on the lease. All ayes.
Motion carried.
H.   The board adopted the Resolution Declaring Light Bar and Gun Holsters
Surplus Property and Transferring Same Pursuant to N.C.G.S. §§ 160A-274 and
160A-280, following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   The board adopted An Ordinance Amending the Sign Regulations of the Town
of Carthage Land Development Code, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy, the board approved the Telecommunications Master Agreement between
Carolina Telecommunications Services (CTS) and the Town of Carthage. All ayes.
Motion carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the board approved the addition of a $5,000
telecommunications lease renewal fee to the Town of Carthage Fee Schedule. All
ayes. Motion carried.
VI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
The board reviewed the Planning Board, Appearance Committee and Historical
Committee minutes.
XII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioners Wilson, Chalflinch, Barber and Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy had no
comments at this time. Commissioner Phillips remarked that it is wonderful to
live in Carthage. Mayor McGraw asked the Police Chief to discuss the training
area set up at Samarkand and remarked how wonderful it is to have this option
available so close, as well as the fire training center and Rural Water. Mr.
Robinson and the board agreed to discuss the manager position in closed session
at the retreat and Mr. Robinson agreed to provide an update on the clerk
applications received as well.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:14 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 25, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEEETING
BUDGET/PLANNING WORKSHOP
8:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting Budget/
Planning Workshop on Saturday, February 25, 2017 at 8:00 a.m. in the Fire
Department at the Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and Jimmy
Chalflinch. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Karen O’Hara, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Kevin Kimball, Assistant Public Services Director Allen Smith, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a FY 2017-2018 budget/planning workshop.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
II.    INVOCATION:
Town Manager Tom Robinson gave the invocation.
III.    PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.
Town Manager Tom Robinson stated that the meeting was being held as a planning
meeting, as well as to discuss the budget and ideas for the future.
After brief discussion, the board approved the Forest Ridge Phase 3C plat
subject to staff receiving all of the necessary information requested,
following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Liles summarized the plans for the new Napa store on Hwy 15-501 and
confirmed that it meets all required standards and the four existing driveways
were approved by DOT. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips the board approved the site plan as
submitted. All ayes. Motion passed.
The board reviewed the State of the Town information. Mayor McGraw suggested
forming a committee to work on downtown revitalization. The consensus of the
board on the possibility of moving the veteran’s memorial was to wait and see
what happens with some of the other properties and then work on a plan. Mr.
Robinson reviewed the items on the Capital Improvement Plan and discussion was
held concerning having a designated person to watch out for grants.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy requested a list of the town employees and their salaries
plus pay ranges and Mr. Robinson reported that nine applications had been
received for the town clerk position. Mr. Robinson and the board discussed what
they were looking for in a clerk and Mr. Robinson indicated that he would
consult with the commissioners on the potential candidates.
Ms. Matthews informed the board that the town looks like it is on target at
this point, she hopes to have a surplus this year and indicated that adequate
money is available for employee training.
Police Chief Davis reported that he has three vacant positions and one officer
was sworn in last week. He is also working on a career development program for
officers to advance within the department. Chief Davis indicated that he has
had to absorb about $8,000 in costs due to the car take home policy and county
program cut.
Fire Chief Tyner advised that including the Carthage location and the sub-
station, the department has 13 fleet vehicles. One of the front line trucks
needs to be replaced and will cost approximately $500,000-$600,000 and the
department is looking at refurbishing one of the other trucks. Chief Tyner
stated that eliminating the pay per call has reduced those that show up for
calls, so he would like to reinstate the pay at a set amount, as well as look
at the pay rate for part timers.
Mr. Kimball stated that his budget would be pretty much the same, except for
the addition of a mini excavator and an additional person to cut grass, pick up
trash and cut the right of ways. Board consensus was that the town needs to
provide the same care to all of the streets within the town limits
Ms. Liles reported that we had spent approximately $21,000 on code enforcement
this year and were now working on the next set of houses. The board wanted to
research what other towns are doing concerning commercial vehicles in yards.
The consensus of the board was to pursue all possibilities and consider
establishing a recreation plan for the town. The board agreed to hold off on
pursuing state transportation ranking for the byway at this time and requested
cost estimates to do a feasibility study.
Mr. Robinson briefly addressed the following subjects:
   ∙     Look at the buggy building before marketing.
   ∙    Do resolution to keep the library in Carthage.
   ∙    Look at prices for directional signs.
   ∙    $100,000 possible payback for lawsuit.
   ∙    Pursue Adopt-a-Highway program and institute fines for littering.
   ∙    Get plans and estimates for landscaping town hall.
   ∙    Water/sewer improvements are finished, will take a few months to see
improvement all the way around town. Will plan dedication ceremony and time for
board to visit the water plant.
   ∙    Worked out plan with the county for over reading of meter and
replacement. Board consensus was that town should loop as many lines as
possible and put flushing valves on all dead end lines, as well as research
CDBG grants to do needed repairs in Needmore.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, Commissioners Barber and Chalflinch had nothing more to
add. Commissioner Wilson requested the commissioners look at his email about
the resolution. Commissioner Phillips thanked Ms. O’Hara for her service to the
town. Mayor McGraw informed the board that the manager’s position would be
discussed at the next meeting in closed session.
V.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Following a closing prayer by Commissioner Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the
meeting at 11:51 a.m. following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 20, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, March 20, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch and Artie Barber. A quorum.
Commissioner George Wilson was absent.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Also present were property owner Don Morrison and his wife; Belinda Trumbo, two
other concerned citizens and Jaymie Baxley, reporter for The Pilot newspaper.
I.    CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the following two items were added to the agenda under new business:
Resolution Authorizing Moore County to Enforce its Animal Control Ordinance
within the Jurisdiction of the Municipality of the Town of Carthage
Resolution by Governing Body of Applicant (wastewater collection system
improvements)
V.    COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting February 20, 2017
B.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Special Meeting February 25, 2017
C.   Budget Amendment #21
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:32 p.m. Ms. Liles summarized
the proposed ordinance indicating that it would allow residential use in the
Central Business District (CBD), which is currently not allowed. It would also
create a Downtown Retail Overlay District which would allow for residential use
except on the ground floor and would prohibit religious uses. Ms. Liles
indicated that the primary use would be commercial, with residential secondary,
and all structures would have to meet required building codes. Mr. Morrison who
owns the Maconaghie Building, which has existing nonconforming apartments,
expressed concern about pets and children in apartments. No one else present
expressed a desire to speak on this item. Mayor McGraw closed the Public
Hearing at 6:51 p.m. After some discussion, the board adopted An Ordinance
Amending the Town of Carthage Development Ordinance with Regard to Provide for
Residential Use in the Downtown and Create a Downtown Retail Overlay District
(DROD), following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board approved the Downtown Retail Overlay District (DROD) map
as prepared and its incorporation as a companion to the Zoning Map. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the board adopted the Resolution in Support of Land Use Plan
Consistency as it pertains to Provide for Residential Use in the Downtown and
Create a Downtown Overlay District. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:53 p.m. Ms. Liles stated that
the town had been receiving calls complaining on how items were being stored in
certain locations around town. The proposed ordinance adds a special
requirement on outdoor display and/or sale of goods in connection to an antique
store, as well as a three month time frame to comply with the current
requirements and adds a definition of outdoor flea market. No one present
expressed a desire to speak on this item. Mayor McGraw closed the Public
Hearing at 6:57 p.m. After brief discussion, the board adopted An Ordinance
Amending the Carthage Development Ordinance to Address the Outdoor Display and
Sales of Goods by Antique Stores, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy, the board adopted the Resolution in Support of Land Use Plan
Consistency as it pertains to the Outdoor Display and Sales of Goods by Antique
Stores. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report and discussed the resolution to support applying for
sewer line grants. Mr. Robinson reported on his courthouse tours, the meeting
with Ms. Newell, the Sister City program, paying for a feasibility study and a
new lawsuit by Forest Ridge over impact fees.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   The board appointed Christopher Sweet to the Planning Board with a term to
expire in June 2020 following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The board appointed Rich Tompkins and Chad Beane to the Town of Carthage
Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee following a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the board adopted the Resolution by Governing Body of
Applicant so that the town can request state grant assistance for sewer line
replacement and rehabilitation in the downtown area, Dowd Street and
improvements to the Lagoon Pump station. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board adopted the Resolution Authorizing Moore
County to Enforce its Animal Control Ordinance within the Jurisdiction of the
Municipality of the Town of Carthage. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
The board reviewed the Restoration Committee and Planning Board minutes.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioners Phillips, Chalflinch, and Barber had no comments at this time.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy commended Public Works on how nice the sidewalks in
Needmore look. Mayor McGraw stated that he appreciates what the staff does and
how well they are staying on top of the money.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION
The board moved into closed session at 7:19 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (6) to consider the qualifications, competence, performance,
condition of appointment of a public officer or prospective officer or
employee, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular
session at 7:34 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried. No action was
taken.
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:34 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 17, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, April 17, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson and Artie Barber.
A full board.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief
Brian Tyner.
Also present was Bailey Davis.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the following item was added to the agenda under new business:
   1.   Resolution Authorizing Dorothy Dutton to seek Re-appointment as a
Review officer for the County.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting March 20, 2017
B.   Budget Amendment #22
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
introduced Dorrie and she told a little bit about herself. Mr. Robinson
summarized his report. Little River will be added to the tax base once
development starts again. Water and sewer are in good condition, but the
general fund needs work. Code enforcement is an ongoing issue. Wireless
Communications consultant fees should not be an issue. Mr. Robinson reported on
the progress at Ms. Ouida Newell’s property. They will meet with Code
Enforcement near her deadline for cleanup. The Town will get a head start on
cutting grass on the Watson property and other properties that typically are an
issue.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved the Mowing Maintenance Agreement
with the North Carolina Department of Transportation. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   The Board agreed to set the town’s Budget workshop for Thursday, April 27,
2017 at 6:30pm. The workshop will take place in the Fire Department Conference
Room.
C.    Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Resolution Accepting a Town Maintained Street for the
remainder of Timberwood Drive as shown on the plat of Forest Ridge Phase 3C.
All ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Following a motion by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Town approved supporting the appointment of Dorothy Dutton as
Review Officer. Approval will also be required from the County Commissioners.
All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy, the date for the public hearing to address the Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities Ordinance has been set for May 15, 2017.
B.   Ms. Liles discussed the amendment to Chapter 52 in the Code of Ordinances.
Ms. Liles stated that it is harder to control the right-of-ways if there is no
policy in place. She is working with the Town’s attorneys to develop suitable
language and proposes to adopt the amendment at the next meeting.
XII.
Mr. Robinson provided an update on the USDA Project. Mr. Kimball and Mr.
Robinson are in the process of identifying dead end lines to hook together and
adding shut-off valves where needed. A few will be added each year.
XIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
The board reviewed the Historical Committee minutes from March 14, 2017.
XIV.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioners Barber, Chalflinch, Wilson and Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy expressed
gratitude for Town Clerk Karen O’Hara’s years of service and said that she
would be missed. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, Commissioner Barber, and Mayor McGraw all
welcomed Dorrie to her new position and expressed that the Town staff was
great. The Commissioners agreed to complete a review of the town manager next
week at the budget workshop.
XV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XVII.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:10 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Karen O’Hara, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 27, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEEETING
BUDGET WORKSHOP
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting Budget
Workshop on Thursday, April 27, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. in the Fire Department at the
Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips and Jimmy
Chalflinch. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Karen O’Hara, Town
Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director
Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner and Jamie
McCloud, a college student.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a FY 2017-2018 budget/planning workshop.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
II.    INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.
Mr. Robinson stated that the meeting was being held to discuss the budget for
the upcoming fiscal year and to go over any additions or deletions since the
previous budget workshop in February.
Mr. Robinson explained the implementation of the final stage of the pay plan
and the staffing levels of each department. The largest new expense is the
purchase of a new fire truck. Mr. Robinson suggested an increase in tap fees to
offset some expenditures and the loss of impact fees. The commissioners
discussed the maintenance of the streets in less fortunate areas. The
Commissioners were in support of reinstating the pay-per-call program for the
Fire Department.
There were several items that would be of benefit to the Town, but were not in
the draft budget. Mr. Robinson suggested hosting Hillary Greenberg and hearing
her presentation on the Main Street Program. Mr. Robinson discussed the revenue
and expense cycle and the Commissioners commented on their priorities. The
Mayor and Commissioners discussed code enforcement funding and the possibility
of recouping the initial cost. There was a brief discussion about the state’s
tiered system and possible changes to how state funds are allocated. Mr.
Robinson suggested to the Commissioners that a tax rate increase might be
necessary within the next couple of years. A two or three cent increase would
provide the Town a more comfortable budget. The Commissioners seemed pleased
overall with the draft budget.
V.   CLOSED SESSION
The board moved into closed session at 7:53 p.m. to discuss a personnel matter,
following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried. The board returned to regular session at 8:
27 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried. No action was taken.
VI.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Following a closing prayer by Commissioner Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the
meeting at 8:27 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
_______________________________      _____________________________
Karen O’Hara, CMC Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 15, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, May 15, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, George Wilson and Artie Barber.
Other Town personnel present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy
Dutton, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public
Services Director Kevin Kimball, and Police Chief Bart Davis. Jaymie Baxley
from The Pilot was present. Mr. Hunt and Mr. Cameron, representing the Carthage
Food Pantry were also in attendance.
Also present was Bailey Davis.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Mayor Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   OATH OF OFFICE:
Mayor McGraw administered the oath of office to Dorothy Dutton, the new Town
Clerk.
V.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the following item was added to the agenda under new business:
1.   Historical District standards and approving board.
VI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VII.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting April 17, 2017
B.   Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Workshop April 27, 2017
C.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Closed Session April 27, 2017
D.   Budget Amendment #24, #25
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
stated that McGill Associates submitted a grant request to repair and replace
sewer lines in the Downtown Dowd Street area. Mr. Robinson briefly discussed
the proposed legislation for the Tier Funding Program and its possible effects
on the Town. Mr. Robinson proposed that the Town Administration change its
public hours from 8:30am-5pm to allow time for balancing the cash register.
They agreed to readdress it at a later meeting. Tom Robinson said that has
spoken to several parties interested in the Little River Farm development, but
no one has made any offers. Mr. Robinson expressed his gratitude for Karen
O’Hara and her years of service with the Town. The Town Manager explained to
the Board that they would be using a FEMA reimbursement to purchase the
excavator/ridge mower.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board approved the contract for auditing service with
Anderson Smith & Wike for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2017. All ayes.
Motion carried.
B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy, the Board set the public hearing for the 2017-2018 Budget for
the next Regular meeting on June 19, 2017. All ayes. Motion carried.
C.   Tom Robinson used the revenue sheets to explain how the proposed reduction
in sales tax revenue will affect the Town’s proposed budget. Mr. Robinson
stated th at he would need some direction from the Board to decide on what
budget items would have to be cut. The Board was unable to offer guidance. They
agreed to meet early on the date of the next regular meeting to discuss
further. Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy, a Special Meeting was set for 5:30pm on June 19, 2017, before
the next Regular meeting. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.    Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Public Hearing for adding courthouses on the Table of
Permitted and Conditional uses was set for June 19, 2017. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E.   Following a motion by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board approved renewing the contract with SUEZ to operate the
water treatment plant for a period of five years. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.   The representatives from the Pantry provided information and examples of
how successful the Pantry has become since moving to the Town’s Rescue Squad
building. The Pantry has submitted their application to obtain the 501c(3) non-
profit status. Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the lease has been renewed for a period of three years
with automatic renewal. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.   Following motion by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board approved the amendment to the Personnel Policy that allows
employees to decline medical coverage and elect to receive a monetary
incentive. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.   As added to the agenda, Ms. Kathy Liles spoke to the Board about the
Town’s lack of Historical Standards. Ms. Liles will provide more information
about adopting standards and which committees can act as the approval board, to
the next regular meeting.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
The board reviewed the Planning Board Minutes from April 6, 2017 and the
Historical Committee Minutes from April 11, 2017.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Commissioner Barber said the Buggy Festival was a good time and thanked the
Staff. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy commented that the personnel functioned well during
the festival and the Police Department all looked professional. Commissioner
Wilson said that he enjoyed the festival and was pleased that the Mural
Committee was able to raise more funding for the next mural. The next mural
will be located on the side of the Marion Building and will depict the tobacco
industry and process. Commissioner Phillips mentioned the ceremony to honor the
veterans that will take place the Saturday before Memorial Day at 11am at the
Veteran’s Memorial in Carthage.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:06 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 19, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, June 20, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, George Wilson, Artie Barber and Jimmy Chalflinch.
Other Town personnel present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy
Dutton, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public
Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner. Jaymie Baxley from The Pilot was present. Others in attendance include
Terry Garr with Habitat for Humanity, Curtis Gaulden and Dennis Pinnix with
State Code Enforcement, Inc., Ouida Newell, Mark and Sharon Fry, Bert Patrick
and other concerned citizens.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
II.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting May 15, 2017
B.   Write off of 2012 Delinquent Water Accounts
C.   Budget Amendment #31
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Mark Fry was presented with a plaque in appreciation of almost eleven years of
service. Mr. Fry stated that he loves Carthage, but plans on spending more time
with his granddaughter. He appreciates that the Town had confidence in him as a
representative.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:35p.m. Moore County is
considering building a new courthouse in the Town of Carthage. Kathy Liles
explained that by adding “courthouses” to the Table of Permitted and
Conditional Uses, the Town would have more input in the process. Courthouses
will be permitted under the same standards as other “government offices.” Ms.
Patrick asked whether this addition would include the proposed parking deck.
Ms. Liles stated that it would include review of the entire site plan. No one
else commented. Mayor McGraw closed the Public Hearing at 6:37p.m. Following a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the
Board approved the addition of “courthouses” to the Table of Permitted and
Conditional Uses with the same standards as a “government office.” All ayes.
Motion carried. The Board adopted the Resolution in Support of Statement of
Land Use Plan Consistency as pertains to the addition of “courthouses” to the
Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:38p.m. Mr. Robinson explained
that the only change the Town is proposing is a tap fee increase from $1000 to
$2000. This fee is in line with what neighboring municipalities are charging.
As agreed upon in the Special Meeting held on June 19, 2017, the entirety of
the Service Technician salary will be covered by the Water Operations Fund.
There was no one present to speak on the proposed budget. Mayor McGraw closed
the Public Hearing at 6:41p.m. Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, the Board adopted the FY2017-2018 Budget
and Budget Ordinance with the modifications that were discussed during the
budget workshop. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson
reported that the Town had hired a part time employee to mow grass. They hope
to maintain a two week rotation on grass cutting. Ms. Matthews and Mr. Robinson
have asked for help from the NC Rural Water Association and the UNC
Environmental Finance Center to identify problems with the water system that
might be costing the Town more money. The mold and asbestos experts verified
that the Tyson-Jones Building was safe for cleanup efforts. The Public Works
has done most of the cleanup and have saved the Town a lot of money. The Right-
of-Way Ordinance and Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance are still being
developed. The process has been slow moving because of the bills that are
currently being considered at the North Carolina General Assembly. The Town has
had several inquiries regarding possible development and subdivisions in the
Town’s jurisdiction. Most of the available capacity is reserved for the Little
River Development. The Public Works Director and Town Manager are looking into
possible alternatives. David McKew from the water plant was available to answer
questions from the Board.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
A.   The Town has received bid proposals for both the demolition and the
restoration of the stand pipe and elevated historical water towers in Carthage.
The demolition of the water tanks would be covered by the USDA grant as long as
we are finished with the removal by the end of July. Bert Patrick expressed
concern that it is a historical landmark and that sometimes decisions should
not be based on money. Mr. Robinson explained that the historical jail building
at the base of the elevated tank would be preserved. Commissioner Wilson and
Mayor-Pro-tem Dowdy reiterated that the tank is a danger to the Town and will
only continue to deteriorate. Mayor McGraw urged the Board not to make any
hasty decisions, but to wait and hold a Public Hearing on the matter before
deciding on how to proceed. Commissioner Phillips was concerned about how the
Town would pay for the restoration or removal of the tanks, if the decision was
postponed. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board approved for the Town to move forward with the
demolition of both water tanks. All ayes. Motion carried.
B.   Town Attorney, T.C. Morphis recently recommended that the Town amend
§10.99 of the General Code to include civil penalties as well as the criminal
offenses. Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board adopted the amendment to Section 10.99 of the
General code which adds civil penalties as a remedy for code Violations. All
ayes. Motion carried.
C.   The board approved the reappointment of Bert Patrick to the Historical
Committee for a three year term to expire June 2020, following a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion
carried. The board approved the reappointment of Antoinette Kelly to the
Historical Committee for a three year term to expire June 2020, following a
motion make by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All
ayes. Motion carried. The board approved the reappointment of Carol Steed to
the Historical Committee for a three year term to expire June 2020, following a
motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by May Pro-tem Dowdy. All
ayes. Motion carried.
D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, Joanna King was appointed to the Historical Committee
for three year term to expire June 2020. All ayes. Motion carried.
E.   Following a motion by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board reappointed Patricia Brown to the Appearance Committee for
a three year term to expire June 2020. All ayes. Motion carried. The board also
approved the reappointment of Nancy Secura to the Appearance committee for a
three year term to expire June 2020, after a motion made by Commissioner Barber
and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.   The board appointed Debbie Gordon and Robert Gordon to the Bike/Pedestrian
Steering committee, following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.   Following motion by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution opposing Senate Bill 126 and House
Bill 522. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.   Mr. Robinson and Town attorney, T.C. Morphis discussed the current
legislation regarding impact fees. The board supports the Town Manager in
speaking with Legislators in support of reinstating the application of Impact
fees.
I.   The board approved the renewal of the fuel contract for the Town to
purchase fuel from Moore County, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
J.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board approved the change of the town seal to
state, “non quem sed quid,” which means, “not who, but what.” All ayes. Motion
carried.
L.   The Town Manager and Ms. Matthews presented information about a contract
with the Houston-Galveston Area Council. Participation in this coop would allow
HGACBuy to complete the competitive bidding process for the Town, although the
Town would not be obligated to purchase through the cooperative. The Town may
be able to participate by using Triangle J’s account. Pending this
determination, the board approved the contract with HGACBuy following a motion
made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by May Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes.
Motion carried.
M.   The board approved the contract with Hilary Greenberg for the work
outlined in her proposal to consult the Town on a Downtown Revitalization plan,
following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. All ayes. Motion carried.
N.   The board is in support that the Town move forward in the development of a
Historic Preservation Commission. Kathy Liles invited anyone who was interested
to meet with Jeff Adolpson, a representative from the State Historic
Preservation Office on June 20, 2017, as he toured the Tyson-Jones Buggy
Factory building. After a brief review of the ongoing violation located at 308
E. Barrett Street, and a statement from the property owner, Ouida Newell, the
board agreed to award her ninety days to bring the property into compliance.
The new deadline for Ms. Newell is September 19, 2017. The Town will send a
letter to Ms. Newell to legitimize the condition.
O.   Mr. Morphis reviewed the status of six Code Enforcement cases. Following a
motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the
board agreed to pursue foreclosure on all six properties.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
The board reviewed the Historical Committee Minutes from May 9, 2017 and June
13, 2017.
XII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Mayor McGraw thanked everyone for cooperating and approving the budget.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XV.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 8:48 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 19, 2017 (SPECIAL MEEETING)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
BUDGET WORKSHOP
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting Budget
Workshop on Monday, June 19, 2017 at 5:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Artie Barber, Marc Phillips. A quorum.
Jimmy Chalflinch was absent
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services Director
Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a FY 2017-2018 budget/planning workshop.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.
Mr. Robinson stated that the meeting was being held to discuss any final
changes and adjustments to the budget.
The Town Manager explained the impending legislative changes that will decrease
the sales tax revenue in the amount of $ 51,000 that the Town would receive. If
the budget is adopted the way it was presented previously, at least $ 50,000 of
the general fund balance will be used. The Board discussed the optional
expenditures to determine which ones were of most importance. The Board was in
agreement that the consultation with Hilary Greenberg, the Downtown
Revitalization Consultant would be the best value for the Town.
There was some discussion about the Fire Department and the allocation of
funding and staff coverage. Fire Chief Tyner said that he and his staff will
always do the best that they can to provide coverage. Funding for one of the
public works positions was previously changed so that 50% was covered by the
general fund. If that position becomes funded entirely by the Public Works
Department again, the Town will not have to use any of the General Fund
Balance.
Kesha Matthews added that overall, the Town is in good standing for a town of
our size. The Board was in agreement to reallocate the funding of the Public
Works position completely back to the Water Operations Fund.
V.   ADJOURNMENT:  
Mayor McGraw adjourned the Special meeting at 6:20 p.m. following a motion made
by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried. The Board took a quick break in preparation of the Regular Board
Meeting set to begin at 6:30 p.m. 
_______________________________      _____________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk              Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 17, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 17, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, July 17, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson and Artie Barber.
A full board.
Town staff present were Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance Officer Kesha
Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and new police officers J.W. Dick and Joe Murphy.
Others present were John and Karen Littlefield, Joanna King and Jaymie Baxley
from the Pilot Newspaper.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
The following items were discussed under New Business.
   A. Police Chief Davis introduced the two new police officers, J.W. Dick and
Joe Murphy to the Board.
   B. Ms. Dutton reminded the Board that the Annual CityVision Conference is
coming up in September.
   C. Ms. Dutton discussed the request for a tattoo parlor in the Central
Business District. Because the Town does not have the use listed in the
Development Ordinance, the applicant would be allowed to establish a tattoo
parlor there. As a way to postpone the permitting process, the Board can hold a
special hearing/meeting to discuss placing a moratorium on the use. After a
motion by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the
special meeting/hearing was set for Wednesday, July 26, 2017 at 6:30p.m.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A. Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting June 19, 2017
   B. Minutes Special Meeting/Budget Workshop June 19, 2017
   C. Budget Amendment #1 and #2
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. The town is still
receiving many inquiries on new development. We are currently exploring options
on how to obtain more sewer capacity including recycling wastewater and
obtaining an existing line from the Town of Southern Pines. Code Enforcement
has issued several violations for portable basketball goals in the right of
way. The Board discussed the issue but were in support of enforcement. The
contract with Hilary Greenberg is its final stages. She should be coming in
September and staff is looking forward to collaborating with her and the
public. The “Brunch Bill,” is on the agenda for this meeting. And Mr. John
Littlefield and his wife Karen are here to speak in support of the ordinance.
Town Staff have been conducting routine business of the Town.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board set the public hearing for the text
amendment adding Cottage Industry to the Table of Permitted and Conditional
Uses for August 21, 2017.All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board set the public hearing for the rezoning of the
property at 211 Martin Street for August 21, 2017.All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   John and Karen Littlefield, proprietors of Filly and Colts, said that
they might be the only restaurant in town that would serve brunch, but they do
not want to lose business because they cannot accommodate their guests on
Sunday mornings. The Board agreed that they want to encourage people to come to
Carthage. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the adoption of the new Chapter
114: Alcohol Sales on Sundays, which allows businesses to serve and sale
alcohol starting at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the contract for Fire Protection and Rescue
with the County of Moore. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the issuance of a revenue bond from the
USDA, series 2017A in the amount of $1,766,000. All ayes. Motion carried.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board approved the issuance of a revenue bond from the USDA, series
2017B in the amount of $523,000. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   Chief Davis explained that the Meetup Spot program creates a safe place
for people to go to conduct marketplace business. Commissioner Chalflinch made
a motion that the Board approve participation in the program. Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the board approved the appointment of Michael Taylor to
the Bike/Pedestrian Steering Committee. All ayes. Motion carried.
   H.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the changes to the Schedule of Fees with
regards to beer and wine retail licenses.
   I.   Ms. Dutton explained the challenges of the existing Business
Registration Program and the importance for public safety to have a record of
businesses and contacts in the area. To encourage participation, staff
recommends lowering the fee to $5.00. Ms. Dutton also explained that a typo had
been made on the previous version of the ordinance. Chapter 110 should have
been referenced. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved reducing the Business Registration
Program fee to $5.00.
   J.   Fire Chief Tyner described the process in selecting the new fire engine
and were as frugal as possible. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy suggested that they try to
sell the old engine to a smaller municipality that might need one. Following a
motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commission Phillips, the
contract to purchase the new fire engine was approved in the amount of
$499,781.00.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
The board reviewed the Planning Board minutes from July 6, 2017, the Historical
Committee minutes on July 11, 2017 and the Appearance Committee minutes on July
10, 2017.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
Mayor McGraw mentioned that our Representative Hudson has an office at
Sandhill’s Community College in the Boyd Library. This is only the second
representative that has had an office in Moore County. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy
wanted to thank Town staff for the prayers and card after this mother passed
away. Commissioner Wilson said that he had already been helped by one of the
new police officers, J.W. Dick and was appreciative of his help. Mayor McGraw
and Commissioner Phillips were pleased that the “Brunch Bill” passed and are
hoping that it encourages more people to come to Carthage.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XVI.   ADJORNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting at 7:41 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 21, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 21, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, August 21, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson and Artie Barber.
A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police
Chief Bart Davis, and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Others present were Michael
Taylor, John Devanno and Joanna King.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Minutes Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting July 17, 2017
   B.   Budget Amendment #3 and #4
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:32p.m. Town Clerk Dorothy
Dutton read the proposed definition of cottage industry and explained that many
other municipalities also have a similar use in their Table of Permitted and
Conditional Uses. Mr. Robinson also stated that the Town hopes to incorporate
this type of use in the restoration and use of the Tyson-Jones Building. Adding
Cottage Industry to the Table of Uses allows more artisans and skilled
tradesman to come work in the downtown area. The Public Hearing was closed at
6:35p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of
Statement of Land Use Plan Consistency as it pertains to adding Cottage
Industry to the Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses. All ayes. Motion
carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved adding Cottage Industry as a
permitted use in the CBD, B-2, TBD and I Zoning Districts. All ayes. Motion
Carried.
   B.   Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:37p.m. Ms. Dutton described
the property and the proposed rezoning. The property at LRK# 00002786, or 211
Martin Street has been a zoning violation in the past. The proposed rezoning
would allow Joanna and Matthew King to purchase the property, repair the
dilapidated building and maintain the property. Ultimately, they wish to use
the property as Matthew King’s private blacksmithing studio. Michael Taylor and
John DeVanno are both adjacent property owners and attended to find out more
about the use. Mr. Taylor was concerned that the use would draw more automobile
traffic and noise to the area. Mrs. King stated that the blacksmith studio
would more than likely be several years out, but assured the neighbors that it
would only be used by the King’s and only during normal working hours. Matthew
King is currently learning early American Blacksmithing, but would not be
selling any merchandise on site. After confirming with both Mr. DeVanno and Mr.
Taylor that they were satisfied, Mr. McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:
48p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution in support of the Land Use
Consistency Statement as it pertains to rezoning parcel number 00002786 or 211
Martin Street. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the rezoning of
the property at 211 Martin Street from mixed R-10 and R-20 to Central Business
District. All ayes. Motion Carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Tom Robinson gave
an update of the sewer grant application that was submitted to the state. The
Town just missed the funding, as they were next on the list. The Town will be
reconsidered either in September 2017 or in 2018. In the meantime, the Town
will look for ways to enhance our application by earning more points, thus
enhancing our chances of being funded. Mr. Robinson explained that there have
been at least two meetings to discuss the quality. Among the attendees were
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, Bill Lester, David McKew, Tommy Overby and Kevin Kimball.
There are seventeen sites identified where automatic flushing valves or
connecting waterlines might help improve the quality. Four of the automatic
flushing valves have been installed and we are anxious to observe the results.
David McKew explained how wastewater is treated and stated that the Town is
above the requirements when it comes to reducing the debris from the water. The
problem is that on the outskirts of Town, there are fewer water customers and
the water might stay in the pipes longer, thus decreasing the minimum amount of
chlorine in the water. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy expressed concern for the children’s
center on US 15-501 and asked Mr. McKew if there is anything that the Town
needs to do right away to improve the water quality. Mr. McKew explained that
flushing the pipes more regularly will help. Tom Robinson suggested installing
an automatic hydrant in that area. If we sold more bulk water from that
location, the pipes would be used more, but it would be less wasteful.
Kathy Liles and Dorothy Dutton summarized the visit from the State Historic
Preservation Office. The SHPO staff discussed many properties in the Town and
were helpful at identifying possible historical features. The Town Manager will
be meeting with representatives from Southern Pines and Moore County to discuss
sewer capacity this Friday. The USDA Loan is completed and closing Tuesday. Mr.
Robinson thanked Kesha Matthews for her patience and attention to detail during
the process.
X.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board set the public hearing to discuss the proposed
Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance for the next Regular meeting, September
18, 2017. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the board set the public hearing for the amendment to
the Town’s Development Ordinance with regard to Window Signage for September
18, 2017. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Recently the Town permitted a Tattoo and Body Modification Service
studio in the Central Business District because at the time, the Town had no
regulations in place. Moving forward, Staff would like to add this type of
business to our Development Ordinance. Staff plans to discuss this topic with
the Planning Board at the next meeting. After a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, the Board set the public
hearing to discuss adding Tattoo Parlors and Body Modification Services to the
Development Ordinance, for September 18, 2017. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Ms. Liles briefly discussed the proposed Right of Way Ordinance. The
Right of Way (ROW) Ordinance gives the Town more authority that the Wireless
Ordinance. The Town will be able to issue encroachment permits for work down in
the Town’s ROW, but not in the NCDOT right of ways. The Town’s Public Works
Department will have to assess the project first and then, the Administration
department will issue and maintain the permits that are issued. There are still
questions about what to require and whether bonds and proof of insurance should
be required. The Board will not vote on the topic until Wednesday evening, when
the attorney will be present.
   E.   Ms. Dutton summarized the background and experience of Mr. Charles
Campbell II and stated that the Planning Board made a favorable recommendation
to appoint Mr. Campbell to the Planning Board. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, Mr. Charles E.
Campbell II, was appointed to the Planning Board with his term to expire August
2021.
   F.   Ms. Dutton explained to the Board that she has had more time in her
position and been able to identify some areas of the Fee Schedule that needed
updating. More often, the Town did not have many specific-type permits,
especially for commercial permits. Ms. Dutton provided a summary of the
proposed changes and also a chart to compare the fees regionally. After a
motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the
Board approved the Ordinance to amend the Town of Carthage Fee Schedule as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   Kesha Matthews explained that the Fire Department is requesting to
change the status of personal property to surplus, so that they can sell it.
The item is a 2003 Ford F-550 E-One Super Lynx Mini Pumper. Chief Tyner was not
available for this meeting to help justify the sale of said pump. After a
motion from Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the
Board approved the motion to postpone this decision until the next Regular
meeting in September. All ayes. Motion carried.
   H.   Mr. Robinson explained that the Town’s attorney and staff have been
working on the proposed Wireless Communications Ordinance. The State statutes
have changed many times. There is a draft that is ready to be reviewed and
possibly adopted. Al Benshoff, the Town’s Attorney, is available on Wednesday,
August 23rd to help explain the Ordinance, as well as any remaining questions
from the proposed Right of Way Ordinance. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board agreed to postpone
the discussion and recess the meeting until Wednesday, August 23rd at 6:30p.m.
All ayes. Motion carried.
I.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
J.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Planning Board meeting from August 3, 2017 and
the Historical Committee meeting on August 8, 2017.
K.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
L.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
M.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
N.   RECESS:
Mayor McGraw reminded the Board that the meeting is not concluded. The meeting
has recessed until Wednesday, August 23, 2017 at 6:30pm. The meeting recessed
at 7:42p.m.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 23, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
ADJOURNED REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 23, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners resumed their regular meeting on
Wednesday, August 23, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson. A quorum.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Others
present were Chris Sweet, Chris Lassiter, Charles Campbell and Bob Hunt.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. as a continuation of the
Regular meeting from August 21, 2017.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-Tem gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Town Attorney, Al Benshoff summarized the proposed wireless
telecommunications ordinance. Technology is changing all the time. Now there is
a need for more, smaller wireless facilities, called either small wireless
facilities or micro wireless facilities. House Bill 310 limits the right of
municipalities to control zoning for wireless facilities. The bill has three
primary goals: encourage collocation on existing structures, provide the right
to access the right-of-ways and limit the cost of permits. Wireless Industry
applicants are also exempt from obtaining zoning permits for routine
maintenance, replacements of small wireless facilities and the installation of
micro wireless facilities attached to other Town of utility poles. The Planner
will review and approve collocations, small and micro wireless facilities.
Conditional Use permits are required for new traditional towers and substantial
modifications.
   B.   Mr. Benshoff explained the proposed right-of-way ordinance. This
ordinance will allow the Town to regulate what goes on in the Town’s right-of-
ways, but does not include areas in the NCDOT’s right-of-ways. The Town will
issue encroachment permits, following a site visit and approval from the public
works department. Once the encroachment permit process is established, it will
also help with the wireless facilities that will be permitted. Mayor McGraw
said the Board should use the next month to read, study and ask questions.
V.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS-
Mayor McGraw and Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that they were proud of the Town
employees and said they continue to do an excellent job.
VI.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
VII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, Mayor McGraw adjourned the meeting was adjourned at 7:21 p.m.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, September 18, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson and Artie Barber.
A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police
Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Bryan Tyner and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Others
present were Daniel and Dolores Bonillo, Janice McGraw, Jaymie Baxley and Bill
Lester.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Ms. Ouida Newell addressed the Board with an update on her property at 303 E.
Barrett Street. All that is remaining is some metal sheeting and some wood
debris. Those items will be collected and hauled off right away. She plans to
grade and re-seed the property to bring it back into compliance. Staff and the
Board were pleased that she had gotten so much done.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes August 21, 2017
   B.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes August 23, 2017
   C.   Budget Amendment #6
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:31p.m. Kathy Liles reviewed
the ordinance. The purpose of the amendment is to add supplemental information
to help make calculating window signage easier. The public hearing was closed
at 6:32 p.m. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Statement
of Land Use Plan Consistency as it pertains to calculating window signage. All
ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved amending Section 100.59.9 of the
Land Development Code to clarify window signage calculations. All ayes. Motion
Carried.
   B.   Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:33p.m. Ms. Dutton described
the proposed amendment as adding “tattoo parlors and body modification
services” to the Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses. The use would be
permitted in the CBD, B-2, TBD and HCD. The Planning Board recommends approval
of the ordinance with a separation requirement between two of these
establishments. After some discussion about the recommended separation, the
Board agreed on 500 feet. Commissioner Wilson was concerned that a large
required separation would limit competition and fair trade. Mayor McGraw closed
the public hearing at 6:37 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch
and seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution in
support of the Land Use Consistency Statement as it pertains to tattoo parlors
and body modification services. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made
by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board
approved the amendment adding “tattoo parlors and body modification services”
to the Table of Uses and making it a permitted use in the CBD, B-2, TBD and HCD
with a separation requirement of 500 feet. All ayes. Motion Carried.
   C.   Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:38 p.m. Kathy Liles briefly
reintroduced the proposed Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance. She also
explained that the Town is ahead of many other municipalities. She suspects
that after some time has passed, then updates will be needed. The public
hearing was closed at 6:39 p.m. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution in support
of the Land Use Consistency Statement as it pertains to the Wireless
Telecommunications Ordinance. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the amendment to the
Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Tom Robinson
explained that Hilary Greenberg will be here on Tuesday to give her
presentation and also conduct smaller group interviews. Mr. Robinson expressed
regret that the Mayor will not be able to attend because he will be at a
conference. Mr. Robinson mentioned the proposed Historical Preservation
Commission briefly. Tom Robinson said that he and Kevin Kimball are working to
complete a pavement assessment and include the plan in the capital management
plan. This plan will help the Town keep a better record of road maintenance. He
introduced the Asset Management Plan and mentioned that there is an agenda item
that explains the grant program that would help fund the plan. The Town’s water
department will be the subject at the South Eastern Water Operators meeting.
Staff and the Commissioners are invited to attend the meeting on October 11,
2017. Mr. Robinson also thanked Ouida Newell for her efforts in cleaning up the
lot on E. Barrett Street.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Bill Lester from LKC Engineering was on hand to speak about the Asset
Management Plan and the grant program. The grant would contribute 90% of the
cost of the Asset Management Plan and Inventory. The plan would allow the Town
to be more proactive instead of reactive. It would provide a water mapping
update, maintenance reports, record archives and ultimately a new software or
program to help the Town maintain the water history and system. The Town is not
responsible for the 10% unless we are approved for the grant. Mayor Pro-tem
asked Mr. Lester about grant funding to replace existing water meters with
automatic readers. Mr. Lester will double check, but most grants would only
cover about 25% of the cost. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the resolution to apply for
the Asset Management Plan grant and its conditions.
   B.   Kathy Liles reintroduced the proposed Historic Preservation Commission
and Ordinance. The Planning Board recommends it favorably to the Board. The
process will move more slowly because all pieces have to be complete. The
program will be regulatory and educational. Mayor McGraw recommended that the
committee should not be limited to just Historical Committee members. The Board
was in agreement. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the date for the public hearing to discuss the
proposed ordinance was set for October 16, 2017. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Fire Chief Bryan Tyner explained the request to change a 2003 Ford F550
Mini Pumper truck to a surplus property and sell it. The equipment has not been
used for years and there are constantly mechanical issues. After some
discussion by the Board, it was recommended to put the equipment on the
govdeals website so that the purchase can be handled most fairly. The funds
received from the sale will go back into a cd for future use on an engine.
Mayor McGraw called for a vote. All ayes.
   B.   Ms. Liles briefly discussed the proposed Right of Way Ordinance. The
Right of Way (ROW) Ordinance gives the Town more authority that the Wireless
Ordinance. There were no questions. After a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Right-
of-Way Ordinance as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Planning Board meeting from September 7, 2017,
the Appearance Committee meeting from September 11, 2017 and the Historical
Committee meeting on September 12, 2017. Lillie Mae Barrett is being honored by
the NAACP on September 23, 2017.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Wilson mentioned that a young member of his church was recently
diagnosed with a rare form of cancer. Her grandmother had to resign from
employment and start transporting her to treatments. The church is holding a
fundraiser on October 22, 2017.
Mayor McGraw mentioned that Max Muse’s daughter was just selected as Miss
Greater Sandhills. Mayor McGraw suggested that the Board approve a Resolution
honoring Ms. Barrett and Emily Muse.
Commissioner Phillips reminded everyone that Veteran’s Day is approaching. If
anyone wishes to be added to the Veteran’s Memorial wall, applications are
available through him or with the Veteran’s Office in Carthage.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION:
The Board moved into a closed session at 7:25 p.m. to discuss a personnel
matter following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
XVI   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Regular meeting was resumed and the meeting was adjourned by
Mayor McGraw at 7:28 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 16, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 16, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, October 16, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson and Artie Barber. A quorum.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police
Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Bryan Tyner and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Others
present were Dolores Bonillo, Jerry Wallace, Brady and Cyndi Smith, Rich Smith,
Glenda Clendenin, Lillie Mae Barrett with two family members, and Jaymie
Baxley, from the Pilot.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Jerry Wallace spoke to the Board about the chronic sewer smell from the sewer
pump near his home at 611 McReynolds Street. He said that it can be unbearable
at times. Mr. Wallace said that he had been in touch with the City of Sanford
Public Works and might have a remedy to the problem. He already exchanged phone
numbers with Kevin Kimball and hopes to get the situation resolved. Brady Smith
was also on hand to discuss the same issue. Mr. Smith is a neighbor of Mr.
Wallace. He said that many years ago, Rocky Davis tried several things to help
the problem. Methane comes up through his pipes on a regular basis. Mr. Smith
said that admittedly, he has been too patient in having this resolved. The
Board and Town Manager assured Mr. Wallace and the Smith’s that the Town will
work diligently to fix this issue.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
Tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes September 18, 2017
   B.   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Minutes September 18, 2017
   C.   Budget Amendment # 8
   D.   Budget Amendment # 10
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:40 p.m. Kathy Liles
reviewed the ordinance. Ms. Liles stated the purpose for the ordinance is to
create a commission, assign responsibilities, launch studies and issue
Certificates of Appropriateness. Ms. Liles said that there is a good set of
design guidelines that can be used as a reference. She doesn’t believe the
Commission would regulate things like the color of a front door, but more
structural issues and materials used. The Commission has three goals in mind:
preservation, maintenance and replacement. The Board asked about those homes
that were unaware of designation. Kathy said that at the beginning of the
permit process, staff would inform the applicant of the designation and begin
the education process. The Town Clerk mentioned hosting a public meeting for
all the property owners that would have this designation. Town staff would
inform as many people as possible through newsletters, notes on water bills and
hosting meetings. The Board requested that appointment to the Commission be
open to all, not just the Historical Committee. The public hearing was closed
at 6:51 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Statement
of Land Use Plan Consistency as it pertains to the Historical Preservation
Commission. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved amending Section
100.35 of the Land Development Code adding the Historical Preservation
Commission with suggested changes. All ayes. Motion Carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Tom Robinson
reported that Hilary Greenberg’s initial report on the Town is very
comprehensive. Staff has reviewed the report and is waiting on the edited,
final copy. If the final copy is received while the Town Manager is out, the
Clerk will send out to the Commissioners and Committees. Tom Robinson suggested
having a meeting in November to thoroughly review the report with Town leaders
and citizens. The Town has received its highest water quality report that it
has ever received. The Town has a very old system, with some dead ends. In
addition, the water reservoir flips when weather conditions change suddenly.
The Town is interested in mixing the water more to avoid such a drastic change
in quality when the water flips. Mr. Robinson has requested estimates from two
companies to conduct a fee study. The fee study will allow the Town to start
charging a version of impact fees again. The surplus truck was advertised on
govdeals as requested. The offer that was made outside of govdeals was a better
offer and was accepted. The surplus equipment was sold for $29900.
The final audit report has not been completed yet. It will be discussed at the
November meeting. The Town Clerk will be creating a Town account. Basic
information about the Town, reminders and pictures will be placed on the page.
It will also serve to inform the community about all of the projects the Town
and its Committees are working on. The Clerk commented that it will be a great
tool to advertise new businesses and get more community input on projects. The
Mayor offered to help, if needed.
Tom Robinson introduced traffic calming to the Board to see if there was any
interest in creating an ordinance. The Board agreed that saving lives is the
most important goal, but they were hesitant to use speed bumps because they
don’t want vehicles to be damaged. The Board asked the Manager to come up with
a plan, list devices that could be used and the Board will hash it out to find
a good balance.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Judi Kelly from the Appearance Committee addressed the Board with
information about the Committee’s plans for Christmas decorating. On hand, was
one of the proposed Christmas “trees” made from a tomato cages, fresh garland
and red bows. Mrs. Kelly also discussed the removal of the shrubs from the
sidewalk on Monroe Street. Members of the Committee have met with Tom Robinson
and Kevin Kimball to develop a plan to use the existing blue flower pots as a
replacement for the shrubs. Tom Robinson wanted to receive approval from the
Board to remove the shrubs before they were taken out. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said
that the Appearance Committee is doing a great job and he receives many
compliments about the appearance of the downtown area.  
   B.   Mayor McGraw stood and read aloud the Resolution in honor of Lillie Mae
Barrett. The Board and audience all clapped. Ms. Barrett shook the hands of the
Commissioners and staff. A motion was made by Commissioner Chalflinch in
support of the Resolution. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy seconded the approval. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   C.   Fire Chief Brian Tyner addressed the Board to explain the proposed
acquisition of a deuce and a half truck from the Forestry Service. The Fire
Department have been on a waiting list to receive one. There is no cost for the
truck, but the department will have to spend money getting the equipment needed
and paining it. It will be housed at the Glendon substation. The truck will
primarily be used to access very remote areas and to move through areas of
debris. Once the Fire Department no longer has a need for the truck, it will be
returned back to the Forestry Service. After a motion by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy
and seconded by Commissioners Chalflinch and Wilson, the Board approved the
acceptance of the truck from the Forestry Service.
   D.   The Town Clerk explained the annexation request to the Board. Mr.
Christian’s property is right beside New Century School and across the street
from the Cabin Branch subdivision. Mr. Christian’s well went dry and he asked
to be annexed into the Town so that he could receive Town water. Ms. Dutton
explained that at this time, the Board must first direct the Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition to annex. Next, the Board must
accept the Certificate of Sufficiency and lastly, the Board must set the date
for the public hearing for both the annexation and the zoning of the property.
After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy,
the Board directed the Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition to
be annexed. All ayes. Motion Carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board accepted the Clerk’s
Certificate of Sufficiency. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board set the
Public Hearing on November 20, 2017 for both the annexation and the assignment
of a zoning district.
   E.   Tom Robinson and Police Chief Davis explained the proposed Career
Development Program. Chief Davis believes that this program will help with
officer retention in the department because it gives incentives for completing
certain training courses and also time in service with Carthage. This program
will give officers the chance to advance and have attainable goals. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
Board approved the implementation of the Career Development Plan for the
Carthage Police Department.
   F.   The Town Manager reintroduced the Water and Sewer System Development
Fee process. Several years ago, the state removed the ability for a
municipality to charge impact fees. Now, the state allows a municipality to
charge a development fee provided they have a study done to help calculate what
the fees should be. Mr. Robinson had requested two bids from different
companies. Both are well qualified, but LKC Engineering is less expensive.
After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board agreed to select LKC Engineering to perform the fee
study. After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board approved the appropriation of funds to cover the expense.
   G.   The Town Clerk introduced the application that was received by the
County of Moore to build a new Board of Elections building on the other side of
the parking lot from the existing building. Rich Smith, the Project Development
Manager for the County was present to explain the site plan and what the
building will be used for. The County plans on disturbing as little of the site
as possible. Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the site plan as submitted.
   H.   Ms. Dutton explained the variance request that was submitted by the
County. They wish to leave the new building as metal without adding veneer or
stucco. The Board of Adjustment must meet to make the decision, after adjacent
property owners are notified of the date for the meeting. After a motion made
by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board set
the Board of Adjustment meeting for October 30, 2017 at 6:30 p.m.
   I.   Kathy Liles reminded the Board of the modular home that was being
constructed on Parks Street. At the last meeting, many Board members mentioned
that they had received complaints because the modular has a flat roof and can
appear to look like a manufactured home. The dwelling was permitted as a
modular home, not a manufactured home. The Town Attorney provided a memo that
explains the designation as a modular and also stated that municipalities
cannot regulate the appearance of a home. This includes the roof pitch,
location of the heating and air, etc. Ms. Liles mentioned that the only course
of action moving forward would be to start requiring more landscaping around a
modular home. Mayor McGraw agreed that it is hard to please everyone all the
time.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Liles informed the Board of Commissioners that the Planning Board
was dissatisfied with the separation requirement that was selected by the Board
with regard to tattoo parlors and body modification services. Ms. Liles stated
that the Planning Board views this use more like an adult business and wanted
to try to shield children and families from seeing it. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said
that the businesses are not allowed to have graphic displays or signage. People
go into the businesses, take care of what business they need to and leave.
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy does not see it as an adult use at all. Commissioner Wilson
said that while he appreciates the recommendation, the Board has made a
decision of the 500 foot separation requirement. No other commissioners were in
favor of revisiting the ordinance.
   B.   Kathy Liles reminded the Board of the Bike/Pedestrian Master Plan
Public Meeting this Thursday evening. She encouraged the Board to attend. Town
Manager stated that have an official bike/pedestrian master plan would open
many doors for funding.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:  
Since the business of the Appearance Committee and the Planning Board was
already discussed, Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the business of the Historical
Committee. The Tour of Homes will hopefully be a big success this year. There
are seven confirmed homes and businesses and the Museum. The event is scheduled
for December 3 rd from 2-5p.m. Tickets are $10.00. This event might provide a
lot of publicity to the businesses that are participating.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Mayor McGraw said that some issues are better handled with kindness and not
anger or intimidation. If for some reason, the permitted tattoo parlor starts
to have inappropriate displays, it would be better to speak to the owner
directly. The same might apply to the modular home on Parks Street. Mayor
McGraw thanked Commissioner Barber for his persistence in suggesting different
ideas to help enrich Carthage. Commissioner Wilson apologized if his earlier
comments were not very professional.
Tom Robinson reminded the Board of his surgery and said that Kesha would be in
charge during his absence.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 8:05 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 30, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 30, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Adjustment held a Special Meeting on Monday,
October 30, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Lee McGraw, Marc Phillips, Artie Barber, George H. Wilson, Jr. and
Jimmy Chalflinch. A quorum. The Board voted to excuse Milton Dowdy.
Others present were Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton and
Moore County Capital Improvements Manager, Rich Smith.
The purpose of the meeting was to consider a variance request by the County of
Moore and the Board of Elections. A variance was requested to leave the new
3600 square foot building with a metal exterior.
I.   Call to Order:
Mr. McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   Invocation:  
George Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   Pledge of Allegiance: 
Marc Phillips led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
IV.   New Business:  
Ms. Dutton swore in Kathy Liles and Rich Smith. Mr. Smith summarized the
County’s request for a variance to allow their recently permitted building to
remain uncovered metal on the outside. The ordinance requires stucco, brick
veneer or another approved material to cover the exterior on the front and
sides that are visible from the road. Mr. Smith provided pictures that indicate
an abundance of natural vegetation that will provide a buffer from the road.
Mr. Smith also stated that the County wished to leave the building metal on the
outside so that it was in harmony with the Board of Elections existing building
and the property management building across the street. The County plans to use
the same doors and windows that are on the existing building. Ms. Liles
reviewed the Findings of Fact and stated that approval of the request was
consistent with the spirit of the Ordinance and the request was substantiated.
Ms. Liles entered all materials into the record. Ms. Liles recommended that the
board consider the requested variance subject to the following conditions:
   1.   Construction shall conform to the submitted revised drawings and
request.
   2.   The applicant shall maximize retention of the buffer during and after
construction.
   3.   If the building is not completely shielded from Pinehurst Avenue,
supplemental plantings will be provided at the direction of the Town.
   4.   A fully vegetated 35’ buffer shall be maintained between the accessory
building and the adjoining residentially zoned property.
Ms. Dutton stated that notice of the meeting had been sent to all owners of
property that abut this County tract and she had not heard back from any of
them. After brief discussion, following a motion made by Mr. Chalflinch and
seconded by Mr. Wilson, the board approved the variance request by the County
of Moore to leave the new Board of Elections accessory building metal, without
covering with stucco or masonry siding. Allowing the building to remain metal
promotes compatibility with the existing Board of Elections building subject to
the following conditions:
   1.   Construction shall conform to the submitted revised drawings and
request.
   2.   The applicant shall maximize retention of the buffer during and after
construction.
   3.   If the building is not completely shielded from Pinehurst Avenue,
supplemental plantings will be provided at the direction of the Town.
   4.   A fully vegetated 35’ buffer shall be maintained between the accessory
    building and the adjoining residentially zoned property.
 
All ayes. Motion carried. A copy of the Final Order is attached to these
minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
After a motion made by Mr. Phillips and seconded by Mr. Chalflinch, Mr. McGraw
adjourned the Board of Adjustment meeting at 6:37 p.m.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Chairman
NOVEMBER 20, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 20, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, November 20, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch, Marc Phillips, George Wilson and Artie Barber.
A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police
Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Bryan Tyner. Others present were Town
Attorney, T.C. Morphis, Daniel and Dolores Bonillo and Jaymie Baxley, from the
Pilot.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the Board approved the amended agenda, as provided.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Daniel Bonillo addressed the Board and said that since the meeting with Hilary
Greenberg, he had been contemplating the idea of a microbrewery coming to
Carthage. He feels that it would be a great anchor point and draw for the Town,
especially with our history. He has already spoken to the owners of Southern
Pines Brewing Company and they seem to be interested in opening a branch or
taproom here in Carthage. The Town Manager agreed and reiterated how beneficial
it could be for Carthage.
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes October 16, 2017
   B.   Board of Commissioners Board of Adjustment Meeting Minutes October 30,
2017
   C.   Budget Amendment # 12
   D.   Budget Amendment # 14
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the first public hearing at 6:34 p.m. The Town
Clerk explained Mr. Ronnie Christian’s request to be annexed into the Town of
Carthage. His well went dry and he asked to annex to have access to public
water. The proposed annexation is contiguous and abuts New Century School. The
tract is 0.83 acres and was once the location of the Wayside School. Mayor
McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:35 p.m. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro tem Dowdy, the Board approved
the request for annexation of property located at 1471 Union Church Road or
LRK# 00001376 and the Annexation Ordinance (AN01-17) as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   B.   Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:36 p.m. to discuss the
zoning of the annexed property. Ms. Dutton identified the zoning of the
adjacent properties. While the New Century School is zoned RA-40, property
behind the school and across the street from Mr. Christian’s property is zoned
R-20. This district is ideal for Mr. Christian’s property because it is less
than an acre, larger than a quarter of an acre. Because there are so many
adjacent properties that are zoned R-20, it cannot be considered spot zoning.
Mayor McGraw closed the public hearing at 6:37 p.m. After a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the
Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency as it pertains to the Christian
rezoning. After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the map amendment and rezoning of LRK#
00001376 from County RA to Town Zoning R-20. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. While there was
no written report, Town Manager, Tom Robinson reported that he is still in
recovery after his major surgery, but is feeling stronger every day and hopes
to be released to come back to work on a regular basis, very soon. Mr. Robinson
reported that the Town’s population has increased 6.2% since 2010. Demographers
suggest that Carthage will continue to grow. The yearly audit has still not
been approved, but it seems that Carthage has had a very strong year
financially. The final audit report should be available by the December
meeting.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton explained a new contiguous annexation request from the
Mideast Railroad Enterprise, Inc. (MERR). A 2.44 acre tract has been divided
from a 23 acre tract. MERR is requesting to annex the 2.44 acre tract into the
Town to be eligible for public water. The remainder of the tract would remain
split zoned between the Town ETJ and the County. The 2.44 acre tract is already
zoned RA-40 under Town zoning. There are adjacent parcels that are already
within the Town limits. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board directed the Clerk to investigate the
sufficiency of the petition and certify the results of the investigation. All
ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the Town Clerk’s
Certificate of Sufficiency for the MERR Annexation. All ayes. Motion
carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board set the public hearing for December 18, 2017 to
discuss the request by MERR for annexation of a 2.44 acre tract listed as 431
Niagara Carthage Road. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   B.   Ms. Dutton explained to the Board that several fee categories have been
overlooked and left off the Fee Schedule. Most of the fees that area missing
are involving Wireless Telecommunications. Town Planner, Kathy Liles and Ms.
Dutton have worked with Wireless Consultant Jackie Hicks to assure that the
fees required are in compliance with state legislation. Ms. Dutton also
explained that a fee for providing copies has been added to the fee schedule.
After a motion made by Mayor Pro tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board approved the Ordinance to amend the 2017-2018 Fee
Schedule as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Town Finance Officer, Kesha Matthews explained that she had received
many requests to allocate longevity funds before Thanksgiving this year. After
receiving verbal approval from all of the Commissioners, longevity pay was
issued to those who qualified. In an effort to amend the personnel policy as
fairly as possible, more research will need to be done. Ms. Matthews and Mr.
Robinson will be able to readdress the policy update at a later date.
   D.   Mayor McGraw mentioned that recently through this employment, he
visited a small town called Hildebrand, NC. This Town appears about the same
size as Carthage and they have several LED message signs in their Town. The
Mayor asked the Clerk to do some research and add Town signage to the agenda.
The Town Clerk said that she is happy to request more estimates and renderings
if the Board would like for her to do so. The Board was in agreement for the
Clerk to gather more information to present at a later time. 
   E.   The Town Clerk explained that Wayne Caddell and Casa Garcia have
requested to build a 12 x 30 covered patio on the left side of the existing
business. The twelve feet they are requesting in width would encroach into the
side setback area. Therefore, they are requesting a variance for the setback.
The setback for TBD is normally 20 feet, but the patio would only be 14.4 feet
from the side property line. Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board agreed to set the Board of
Adjustment meeting for the next regular meeting on December 18, 2017 at 6:30
p.m. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   F.   Mayor McGraw read aloud a Resolution to honor Commissioner Artie Barber
whose term is up this year and did not run for another term. Mr. Barber thanked
everyone for making his time on the Board so pleasant and said that he enjoyed
working with the other Commissioners, the Mayor and Town staff. After a motion
made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
approved the Resolution in Honor of Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried. The Mayor dismissed the Board and all attendees for an intermission
for refreshments.
   G.   The Mayor resumed the meeting at 7:14 p.m. Ms. Dutton reminded the
Board of the Annual Christmas Parade and tree lighting ceremony scheduled for
December 5, 2017. The Ordinance to close the roads was to be sent to the NCDOT
office to obtain a special event permit. Following a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved
the Ordinance Declaring a Road Closure for the Christmas Parade. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   H.   Ms. Dutton explained that local attorney, James Van Camp has offered to
donate an original 1906 Tyson Jones buggy to the Town and Carthage Museum.
Because one of the buggies that is currently at the museum is in poorer
condition, Staff and Historical Committee member, Bert Patrick, hope to swap
out the buggy with the new one. Town Staff is waiting for estimates to
disassemble and relocate the buggy. Mr.Van Camp is planning on attending the
December meeting, at which time the donation will be official. Mayor McGraw
mentioned that while he was traveling for work, he had the opportunity to speak
with the Town Manger from Spencer, NC. There is currently a transportation
museum in Spencer and the Mayor was asked if Carthage would be interested in
placing a buggy in the transportation museum. The Board agreed to discuss it at
a later date and also to decide which buggy would be moved to Spencer.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   The Town Manager reminded the Board that they have received a copy of
the final assessment and report from the downtown revitalization consultant,
Hilary Greenberg. He asked the Commissioners to read the report several times
and be prepared to discuss ideas and strategic pans in the next couple of
months. Staff plans on meeting with community members and other committees to
go over the report, too. The Clerk will add the report to the website and
distribute to the other committees.
   B.   Ms. Dutton mentioned that the Board could appoint members to the
Historical Preservation Commission at any time now. There has been several
Historical Committee members offer to serve on the Commission and one other
member of the community. Ms. Dutton mentioned that currently the ordinance
specifies that only Town and ETJ residents may serve on the Commission, but
that prevents business owners in the area from serving, even though they are
invested in the Town. The Board would like to amend the Historical Preservation
Ordinance to allow business owners to serve on the Commission. The Board also
suggested that the Ordinance allow more people to serve, if they are
interested. Ms. Dutton stated that she and the Town Planner, Kathy Liles will
work on those changes and will bring it back to the Board for approval after a
public hearing.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the Historical Committee meeting
from November 6, 2017. The Historical Committee met to finalize the plans for
the reception dinner head on November 14, 2017 to show appreciation for the
participants on the Tour of Homes. The dinner was a big success and many
community connections were made. The Tour of Homes is scheduled for December 3,
2017 from 2:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. The Mayor asked the Clerk to add information
about the homes/businesses that are participating to the Facebook page.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Barber stated again that he has enjoyed his time on the Board for
Carthage. Commissioner Phillips said that he is feeling thankful. Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy said that he is pleased to be serving on the Board again and he is
looking forward to the Christmas Parade. Commissioner Chalflinch said that he,
too, is thankful to have been re-elected to the Board for a new term. He also
wanted to thank Kevin Kimball and the Public Works Department for all their
hard work. He said that everything is looking really good in Town. Commissioner
Wilson expressed gratitude for the support his Church family was shown. He also
thanked Jaymie Baxley, from the Pilot, for his help with advertising the
fundraiser. About $4500 was raised to help the family in need.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board moved into a closed session moved into closed session pursuant
to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (3) to consult with our attorney to preserve the
attorney-client privilege. All ayes. Motion carried.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the regular meeting was resumed and adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 7:
56 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
DECEMBER 18, 2017
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 18, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, December 18, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, and George Wilson. A quorum. Commissioner
Chalflinch arrived at approximately 6:45 p.m.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Bryan Tyner.
Others present were Susan Hicks, Wayne Caddell, Tom Stewart, Elizabeth
Williams, Christopher M. Nance and his father, Max, Jeannie and Emily Muse,
Adam Hoover, Kaye Fritz, Patricia Eder, Dora Anne Maness, Carol Steed, Dan
Bonillo, Jesse Garcia Lugo, James Van Camp, Dale and Elsie Watson and Jaymie
Baxley, from the Pilot.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes November 20, 2017
   B.   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting Minutes November 20, 2017
   C.   Budget Amendment # 16
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the first public hearing at 6:33 p.m. The Town
Clerk explained Mideast Railroad Enterprise’s (MERR) request to annex a tract
of land identified as a portion of LRK# 94000132, into the Town of Carthage.
The property owners have carved out a 2.44 acre tract to be annexed in order to
service an existing barn with public water from the Town. The tract is
currently split zoned between the County and Carthage ETJ. The annexation meets
the state requirements for voluntary annexation and all of the notice
requirements have been met. Dale Watson, an adjacent property owner, asked for
clarification on the zoning. Ms. Dutton explained that it does not have to be
rezoned and will remain zoned as RA-40. Mayor McGraw closed the public hearing
at 6:35 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro tem Dowdy, the Board approved the request for annexation of a portion of
LRK# 94000132, located at 431 Niagara-Carthage Road and the Annexation
Ordinance (AN02-17) as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Regular Meeting was closed and the Board of Adjustment convened
at 6: 36 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.
Following a Motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board of Adjustment meeting was closed and the Regular meeting was
reconvened at 6:40 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OATH OF OFFICE:
Susan Hicks, the Moore County Clerk of Superior Court, administered the Oath of
Office for Commissioner Milton Dowdy, Commissioner Christopher M. Nance and
Commissioner Jimmy Chalflinch. Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy
and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, Mayor McGraw excused everyone for a quick
break to enjoy refreshments at 6:50 p.m. Mayor McGraw called the Regular
meeting back to order at 7:01 p.m. Christopher M. Nance joined the rest of the
Board up front.
XII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager, Tom
Robinson explained that LKC Engineering is in the process of studying and
forming a system development fee for the Town. One of the main goals for the
next few months is obtaining more sewer capacity, hopefully from the purchase
of Southern Pines’ capacity that runs down NC Hwy 22. Mr. Robinson reported
that the Town has exceeded the state regulated limits on satellite annexations.
Because Wes Caddell is seeking annexation, it is fairly urgent that we seek
special legislation that exempts the town from the 10% maximums for satellite
annexations. The Town Manager recently visited Southern Pines Brewing Company
along with Dan Bonillo to express interest in the company opening a secondary
location here in Carthage, at the Tyson Jones Buggy Building.
XIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton stated that the 2018 Regular meeting schedule was provided
for their review. An alternate date would have to be set for January, since the
regular date falls on MLK Day. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board agreed to set the January meeting for
January 16, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried. The meetings will
remain on the third Monday of the month.
   B.   Emily Muse approached the Board as Mayor McGraw read the resolution in
her honor. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson the Board approved the Resolution in honor of Ms. Muse. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Ms. Liles explained the proposed changes to the Historical Preservation
Commission. The proposed changes include increasing the number of members
appointed as well as allowing non-residents to serve in an advisory role, so
long as they are invested in the Town. A public hearing will have to take place
before the Board can approve the changes. After a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board set the date of the
public hearing for January 16, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Ms. Liles explained request for a covered patio to be constructed at
4505 US 15-501 Hwy, otherwise known as Casa Garcia Mexican Restaurant. The
Planning Board made a favorable recommendation, and listed four conditions that
must be met. Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the site plan provided by Wayne
Caddell and Casa Garcia to construct a covered patio, with the following
conditions:
      i.   The variance was approved to allow the side setback to be reduced to
15.4 feet
      ii.   The Watershed requirements and standards are met by combining more
land with the existing lot.
      iii.   The lights on the patio are downcast, so they will not disturb
neighboring property or traffic.
      iv.   If the existing buffer between the restaurant and home health
business is damaged, it is repaired and protected, to allow an appropriate
separation between uses.
All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   The Town Clerk explained that Commissioner Wilson has asked to be
removed as the alternate delegate for the Triangle J Council of Governments.
Commissioner Phillips will remain as the primary delegate. He explained that
the meetings are very helpful for hearing about what other jurisdictions are
involved with and solutions to different issues. He mentioned that he has been
able to attend most of the time. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, Christopher M. Nance was selected as the
alternate delegate. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton stated that Attorney James Van Camp has donated a 1906 Tyson
Jones doctor’s buggy to the Town. Mr. Van Camp explained that when he purchased
the buggy about thirty years ago in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, it was with the
goal of one day donating it to the Town of Carthage. He remarked that the
donated buggy resembles the buggy that appears on the Town seal. The Board
expressed their gratitude and applauded Mr. Van Camp for his generosity.
   B.   Ms. Dutton gave a brief update on the status of the Sister Cities
Committee. The request this evening is for the Board to approve the language
that will appear on the permanent declaration between the Town of Carthage and
Flavy le Martel. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the language in the declaration as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried. After Flavy le Martel approves the
language, the declaration will be printed on special paper for Mayor McGraw and
the Mayor in Flavy le Martel to sign. It will be contained in a commemorative
frame in both locations.
   C.   Ms. Dutton reviewed the information that she had gathered about the
proposed LED message signage. She has been coordinating some estimates with
Mike Bassett from Parish Signs and also contacted the Town of Hildebran to get
information about the LED signs that are located in their town. She was
directed by the Board to look into breakaway signs that might be more cost
effective and will update the Board as she receives information. Mr. Robinson
and the Board agreed to revisit this at the proposed Board retreat in February,
2018. Mayor McGraw asked the Clerk to get suggestions from the Appearance
committee as far as aesthetics are concerned.
   D.   Mr. Robinson mentioned earlier in the meeting the need to have a Board
retreat or workshop. Before too long, it will be time to consider the budget
again and there are several other important items that need attention. The Town
Manager asked the Board to use the list of topics that was provided to narrow
down topics that are of most importance. Staff will gather the lists and plan
the retreat based on those topics. The Board agreed to wait to set the date of
the retreat until the January meeting. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked about the
grants that are available for sidewalks. Mr. Robinson explained that once we
have adopted a Bike/Pedestrian Plan, more funding will be available for
sidewalks and other improvements.
XIV.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the December 7, 2017 Planning Board
meeting. The Board discussed the site plan request from Casa Garcia, the
signage at the pawn shop, updating the subdivision regulations and the
development permits that have been issued. Ms. Dutton reviewed the Historical
Committee minutes from the December 12, 2017 meeting. The Tour of Homes was a
big success and the committee raised $771.00. There are several properties that
have already agreed to participate next year. The committee has received a copy
of the Greenberg report and are hoping to be prepared to provide suggestions to
staff and the Board early in the New Year.
XV.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Chalflinch thanked the Police Department, Public Utilities and
other town staff for their hard work during the Christmas Parade. Mayor Pro-tem
commended the all of the departments for doing such a wonderful job and taking
their jobs seriously. Commissioner Phillips stated again that he has enjoyed
his time on the Board for Carthage. Commissioner Phillips also expressed
gratitude for all of the Town departments. Commissioner Nance said that a lot
of good things are happening in Carthage and he looks forward to working with
the Board and staff. Mayor McGraw thanked Town staff for a successful parade.
He asked Town staff to be more diligent with code enforcement, particularly
with temporary signage. And he recommended reminding Carthage residents that
they are not allowed to place white goods, like dishwashers, on the roadside
for pickup.
XVI.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XVII.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XVIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 7:46 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
DECEMBER 18, 2017 (BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
DECEMBER 18, 2017
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Adjustment held a meeting on Monday, December 18,
2017 at the McDonald Building, during the Regular Board of Commissioners
meeting.
Present were Lee McGraw, Marc Phillips, George H. Wilson, Jr. and Mr. Dowdy. A
quorum. The Board voted to excuse Jimmy Chalflinch and Artie Barber.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Public Works Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Mr. Wayne Caddell, the land owner, and Jesse
Garcia Lugo, the restaurant owner, were in attendance to answer any questions
about the variance request. Many members of the community were also present.
The purpose of the meeting was to consider a variance request by Mr. Wayne
Caddell and Jesse Garcia Lugo, owner of the Casa Garcia restaurant. A variance
was requested to decrease the side setback from the required (20) feet down to
(15.4) feet.
I.   Call to Order:
The regular meeting was closed and the Board of Adjustment was called to order
at 6:36 p.m.
II.   New Business:  
Ms. Dutton swore in Kathy Liles and Jesse Garcia Lugo. Ms. Liles requested that
all documents presented will be entered into the records. Ms. Liles summarized
the request for a variance to allow Casa Garcia to build a 12 x 30 covered
patio on the north side of the existing building. Current zoning standards in
the Highway Commercial District for side setbacks are twenty feet. Reducing the
size of the patio would not be practical or very beneficial to their business.
Ms. Liles stated that there is already a berm between the restaurant and the
home health business, as well as some trees and vegetation that acts as a
buffer between the uses. Ms. Dutton stated that she has spoken to the home
health business and they are comfortable with the request. The only telephone
calls received were adjacent property owners stating that they were in favor
with the request. Ms. Liles read through the Findings of Fact and explained to
the Board that a hardship would be placed on the property owner, if the request
was denied and the requested variance is in alignment with current Town
ordinances. Mr. Dowdy asked if approving this request opens the door for all
other variances to be approved, but Ms. Liles stated that each request must be
looked at individually for fairness. Following a motion made by Mr. Phillips
and seconded by Mr. Dowdy, the board approved the variance request by Mr. Wayne
Caddell and Jesse Garcia Lugo to reduce the side setback to 15.4 feet with the
following three conditions:
   1.   Construction shall conform to the submitted revised drawings and
request.
   2.   The applicant shall conform to all requirements of the Planning Board
approval.
   3.   More than three verified noise complaints to the Police Department in
one year’s time will result in additional soundproofing of the patio or
discontinuation of its use.
All ayes. Motion carried. A copy of the Final Order is attached to these
minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
After a motion made by Mr. Phillips and seconded by Mr. Chalflinch, Mr. McGraw
adjourned the Board of Adjustment meeting at 6:40 p.m.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Chairman
2018 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 16, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 16, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Tuesday, January 16, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners Marc Phillips, George Wilson and Christopher Nance. A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Kevin Kimball and Fire Chief Bryan Tyner. Others present were Wes
Caddell, Betsy and Greg Pilson and the Town’s auditor, Ken Anderson.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes December 18, 2017
   B.   Board of Adjustment Minutes December 18, 2017
   C.   Budget Amendment # 17
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the first public hearing at 6:32 p.m. Kathy Liles explained
the proposed amendment to the Historical Preservation Ordinance. The only
changes that are proposed is to extend the number of members that can serve on
the commission and also to allow non-resident business owners to serve in an
advisory capacity. Those members would not be allowed to vote. The public
hearing was closed at 6:34 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch
and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution in
Support of Land Use Consistency. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the amendment to the
Historical Preservation Ordinance, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager, Tom
Robinson said that he has been in touch with the Transportation Museum in East
Spencer, NC. Originally, they said that they were at capacity, but would love
some photos and a narrative about the Buggy Factory. Since the original
conversation, they have called back and said that they would be happy to host a
Tyson Jones buggy. The Board requested that Tom Robinson obtain more
information about the process to ensure that the buggy would be returned back
to the Town after its use. Mr. Robinson mentioned that the Town is very much in
need of adding sewer capacity and it will be addressed in more detail at the
commissioner’s retreat. The Town Manager announced that there is something to
celebrate. Finally, the water results are in compliance and the rolling
averages are finally at a level that do not require community reporting. The
Board discussed the recent increase in crime in the area. It was attributed to
our growth as well as the epidemic of opioid addiction. Mr. Robinson stated
that there is one position in the Police Department that has been frozen. The
Board might consider that for discussion at the Board retreat.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton summarized a request to join the Historical Committee made by Diana
Williamson. Ms. Williamson is very civically minded. While she does not reside
in the Town currently, she is a native of Carthage and still has multiple
properties in Town that she leases. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson
and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board appointed Diana Williamson to the
Historical Committee for a three year term to expire June 2021. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
XIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Town Finance Officer, Kesha Matthews introduced Ken Anderson, the
Town’s Auditor to the Board. Mr. Anderson explained that the general fund,
water fund and sewer funds have all grown this year and it has been a very
positive year for the Town. Mr. Anderson stated that the debt activities did
increase this year, but the outcome has still been positive. Mayor McGraw asked
Mr. Anderson if there had been any conflicts in working with the Town staff or
gathering any information, but Mr. Anderson stated that the experience had been
a positive one. Mr. Robinson stated that he is very pleased with the financial
performance this year and also Kesha Matthews has done an outstanding job.
   B.   Mr. Robinson suggested that the Board set a date for the Commissioner’s
retreat, and discussed the topics that were rated the highest of importance
amongst the Commissioners. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board set the Commissioner’s Retreat for
March 3, 2018 at 8:00 a.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.,   Ms. Dutton gave the Board an update on the presence of temporary
signage being used at businesses. All of the businesses that have been
contacted, all of them are willing to comply. Finances are the biggest obstacle
for them. Ms. Dutton will keep reaching out to the local businesses so that we
can have full compliance.
   D.   Ms. Dutton also presented a new estimate for a LED message sign. This
rendering and estimate is from Sign Systems, Inc. out of Hickory, NC. Ms.
Dutton also explained that NCDOT does not allow any signs in their right-of-way
area, even if it is breakaway construction. The Board was in agreement that
there are many possible locations for such a sign.
   E.   Kathy Liles addressed the Board and explained the proposed Star Ridge
Farms subdivision. She also described the process to the Board. The proposed
phases will be re-numbered so that they are easier to understand. The Town is
planning to provide public water, but the homes will be served by septic
systems. It is probable that there will be a second entrance added to the
subdivision. The developer is working with Town staff to delineate open space
area and make decisions involving sidewalks or trails. Many Board members
expressed the necessity for sidewalks in the subdivision. The developer stated
that performance bonds might be necessary to ensure the sidewalks get
constructed. Ms. Liles reiterated that the Town will be seeking special
legislation in order to legally annex this subdivision. The entire process will
include the annexation, rezoning and subdivision site plan approval
concurrently. Wes Caddell, the developer, asked the Board to consider making
water available to the subdivision, even if the legislation does not get
approved.
   F.   After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board approved the Resolution Requesting that the NC General
Assembly Authorize the Town of Carthage to Continue Annexing Areas that are
Non-Contiguous to the Primary Corporate limits of the Town, as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   The Board agreed to add an item to the agenda to discuss the current
Auditor and contract. Mr. Robinson stated that for the last two years, he has
not been pleased with the auditor. Mr. Robinson said that he doesn’t think that
Carthage is a priority and that despite what Mr. Anderson reported, the audit
was not submitted in a timely manner. Mr. Robinson suggests requesting
proposals from other companies and also that Ms. Matthews is quite capable of
compiling the data in preparation of the audit itself. The Board was
disappointed to learn that the Auditor had not actually spent much time in the
office. Most of the work was done remotely. The Board of Commissioners were
fully in support of seeking proposals from other companies.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the January 11, 2018 Planning Board
meeting. The Board discussed the proposed Star Ridge Subdivision. The Planning
Board recommended to the Board to approve the preliminary plat and subdivision,
contingent on planning for sidewalks or trails. The Planning Board also wanted
to express gratitude to the Public Works staff for all the hard work they did
during the snow and ice event. Planning Board member, Charles Campbell
expressed his deepest sympathies for the passing of a colleague, Ken Shaw. Mr.
Shaw began his Police service with the Town of Carthage and after employment at
other agencies, completed his time with the Town. Mr. Shaw recently passed away
due to an unknown illness.
XII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Many of the Commissioners commended the Public Works staff for their efforts
during the snow event. They have received many compliments from the community.
Commissioner Wilson gave an update on the Mural Committee and passed around a
rendering of what the next mural will be, a historical perspective of the
tobacco industry in this area. Mr. Nurkin will be painting this mural and if
all goes well, he will start painting in April, 2018. Mayor McGraw thanked the
Town staff for their hard work during the inclement weather and also thanked
Ms. Dutton for maintaining the Town’s Facebook account to provide current and
urgent information. Mayor McGraw stated that he had a lot of confidence in the
Town.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mr. Greg Pilson was asked to lead the closing invocation.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 7:53 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 19, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 19, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, February 19, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Commissioners Marc Phillips,
George Wilson and Christopher Nance. A quorum. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy presided
over the meeting in Mayor McGraw’s absence. Commissioner Chalflinch was absent
from the meeting, as well.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Bryan Tyner.
Others present were Rich Smith, Daniel Bonillo and Town’s attorney, Al
Benshoff.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Wilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes January 16, 2018
Budget Amendment # 11 & # 18
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager, Tom
Robinson said that Town staff is gearing up for budget planning. He reminded
the Board about the retreat/workshop scheduled for March 3, 2018. The Board
should arrive at 7:30 a.m. for breakfast and the workshop will begin at 8:00
a.m. Town staff and McGill and Associates have made last minute changes to the
proposed Bike & Pedestrian Plan. Final maps should be available for discussion
at the workshop.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Kathy Liles summarized a proposed text amendment to the Town Zoning
Codes. The Town has received several requests to construct detached garages in
the side yards of residential districts. Currently, detached garages are only
allowed in rear yards. This often poses a hardship for people who own
Historical homes and also on the properties that might have topographical
challenges. The Planning Board has made the recommendation to allow detached
garages in the rear and side yards of all residential zoning districts. After a
motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the
Board set the public hearing to discuss the detached garage text amendment for
March 19, 2018. All ayes. Motion Carried.
   B.   Mr. Richard Smith, the Capital Projects Manager for Moore County
addressed the Board and explained their request to install a new above-ground
fuel tank at their Property Management building. The new tank would be to
prevent them from running out of fuel for emergency vehicles, County vehicles
and also other organizations that purchase fuel from the County. Mr. Smith said
that originally, the County was proposing a 10,000 gallon tank that would be
enclosed in a containment area. Recently, they discovered that there are other
types of tanks that could potentially hold up to 12,000 gallons of fuel, and do
not require the containment wall because one is already built into the
construction. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the site plan for up to a 12,000 gallon
above ground fuel tank at the Moore County Property Management Office, as
proposed. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Liles summarized the status of the Historic Preservation Commission
and asked the Board to make appointments to the Commission. The terms will be
staggered and the members can be reappointed at the end of their assigned
terms. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board appointed Daniel Bonillo and Joanna King to the Historic
Preservation Commission for a three-year term to expire December 31, 2020. All
ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded
by Commissioner Nance, the Board appointed Lillie Mae Barrett and Bert Patrick
to the HPC for a two-year term to expire December 31, 2019. All ayes. Motion
carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, the Board appointed Antoniette Kelly to the HOC for a four-
year term to expire December 31, 2021. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion
made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, Connie Marion
was appointed to the HPC for a one-year term to expire December 31, 2018. All
ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded
by Commissioner Phillips, Jor’l Campbell was appointed to the HPC as an ex-
officio or non-voting position. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Ms. Dutton summarized for the Board the status of the proposed Star
Ridge Farms Subdivision. The developer Wes Caddell and staff would like to
continue moving forward. Staff requests that the Board set the date for the
rezoning of the property from County RA-40 to Town R-20. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board set the
Public Hearing for the rezoning on the area known as Star Ridge Farms for March
19, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Ms. Dutton gave the Board an update on the proposed annexation of the
property known as Star Ridge Farms. Staff requested that the Board set the date
of the public hearing to consider the annexation. After a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board directed
the clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the annexation petition and certify
the results of the investigations. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion
made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
accepted the clerks Certificate of Sufficiency and investigation of the
annexation request for Star Ridge Farms. All ayes. Motion carried. After a
motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the
Board agreed to set the public hearing to discuss the annexation of the
property known as Star Ridge Farms Part One or LRK# 00031450 for March 19,
2018. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Tom Robinson summarized the need for direction regarding enforcement of
basketball goals in the rights of way. He suggested tabling the topic until
there is a full board present. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board agreed to table the basketball
discussion until the full board is present. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the February 1, 2018 Planning Board
meeting. The Board discussed the proposed site plan for the above ground fuel
tank and also a proposed site plan from Sandhills Community College. Since the
meeting, Sandhills Community College has contacted Ms. Dutton to cancel the
request due to current funding restrictions. Mr. Robinson attended the
Historical Committee meeting on Tuesday, February 13, 2018. Attendance was high
and the committee voted in favor of Sherry Cagle being appointed to the
Historical Committee. The Committee also recommended sending the Tyson Jones
buggy that was donated by Doug Brown to the State Transportation Museum in East
Spencer, NC.
XII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
None
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Wilson,
the Board entered into Closed Session at 7:13 p.m. pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-
318.11(a) (3) to consult with our attorney to preserve the attorney-client
privilege. All ayes. Motion carried. Following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Regular meeting was resumed
at 7:44 p.m.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER: 
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy at 7:47 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 3, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEEETING
PLANNING WORKSHOP
MARCH 3, 2018
8:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting Planning
Workshop on Saturday, March 3, 2018 at 8:00 a.m. in the Fire Department at the
Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch and
Christopher Nance. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief
Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Carthage
resident, Matthew Friede and LKC Engineer Bill Lester.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a planning workshop to discuss
priorities for the upcoming year.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 8:03 a.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Wilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   OVERVIEW: 
Mr. Robinson stated that the meeting was being held to discuss various topics
for the upcoming year and try to decide on some priorities on which to focus.
The Commissioner’s previously rated the importance of several topics.
V.   STATE OF THE TOWN:
Mr. Robinson went over the State of the Town report. The Town’s population is
increasing. There will be no need to raise taxes this upcoming year because the
County is planning to do their revaluation, so our tax revenue will more than
likely increase on its own. The Town’s water rates are higher than some
municipalities and there is no need to raise the rates again. There will be
more water and sewer customers as Carthage grows.
VI.   BUDGET REPORT:
Overall, the Town is in good financial shape. Mr. Robinson passed out budget
sheets that listed every item in the budget to show comparisons between where
the Town is and where it should be financially. The Town’s Budget items must
fall into one or more categories: personnel, operations or small capital. Mr.
Robinson stated that while the Town still has revenues above expenditures,
there are some sewer improvements that need to be done.
VII.   PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Before the Department Head presentations, local resident, Matthew Friede was
given the opportunity to speak. Mr. Friede lives in the Savannah Garden
subdivision. He stated that he received a violation notice because of a
basketball goal in the right of way. He wants to follow the rules and teach his
children to do the right thing. He stated that he didn’t think the basketball
goals in the rights of way was enforced consistently and would like to try to
find a compromise with the Town. Mr. Friede said that enforcing this too widely
will create an image of Carthage that will deter other families from moving to
Carthage. Mayor McGraw thanked Mr. Friede for attending and speaking to the
Board. Mr. Robinson stated that perhaps the Town could work with the residents
of Savannah Garden to find a compromise. Commissioner Nance stated that he
doesn’t think that we should be in the business of confiscating the basketball
goals. The town should issue a warning, then issue a fine. Ms. Liles asked the
Board to consider adding common areas including a half court for basketball
players to use. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that now there is a certain amount of
liability on the Town, if something should happen to a child playing. He urged
the Board to work to resolve the issue because the residents of Carthage know
that it is a concern. Mr. Robinson suggested having a neighborhood meeting in
Savannah Garden to discuss with the residents that live there. Mayor McGraw
stated that the Town should continue enforcing until a new conclusion is made.
The resident in violation will receive a verbal warning, written warning and
then confiscation until another decision in made. The Board urged the Clerk to
put the issue on Facebook and in the newsletter. Mayor McGraw released everyone
for a ten minute break.
VIII.   DEPARTMENT HEAD PRESENTATIONS:
Police Chief Bart Davis spoke to the Board about the staffing of the
department. He asked the Board to unfreeze the existing position, so that they
can hire one more full time officer. Mayor Pro- tem Dowdy expressed a desire to
hire a person of color in a position within the Police Department, so that the
Town is well represented. The Town is not allowed to express that in an
employment ad, but they will continue to treat all applicants fairly. Chief
Davis also asked for an increase in the Police Department budget to cover the
cost of radios and uniforms. The Board was in agreement on the requests to
unfreeze the position and the increase in budget. Fire Chief Brian Tyner
addressed the Board next. His focus for the upcoming year is to balance out the
amount that the volunteer firefighters are paid. Instead of volunteers getting
paid $5.00 per call and paid staff getting paid $9.50 per hour, they will get
paid the same amount. Mr. Robinson said that the responsibility would call on
Chief Tyner to manage the number of responders. Chief Tyner also mentioned
using surplus funds to refurbish the antique fire trucks, as long as there was
a cap placed on spending. Public Works Director stated to the Board that the
utilities department was running smoothly. The part time grass mower will start
back in April and will work on keeping the right of ways mowed. In the past,
only $12,000 was used to repair the streets and that is not nearly enough. The
board discussed whether the County would be willing to help financially with
repairs on the main roads that their offices and employees use. After a motion
made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board
agreed to illicit shared expenses from the County. Mr. Kimball stated that he
has received three proposals for water tank maintenance plans. Mayor McGraw
asked Kevin to gather more information from the companies and put their
information in the same format, for easier comparison. Mr. Kimball and Mr.
Robinson spoke to the Board about replacing the water meters with meters that
can be read from inside the office. The expense is enormous up front, but the
savings through the years would potentially be greater. Mr. Kimball is awaiting
two more estimates. Mayor McGraw suggested putting all of the possible vendor
information in a comparison chart.
IX.   CHALLENGES/ISSUES/OPPORTUNITIES: 
Tom Robinson began the discussion of possible priorities for the upcoming year.
Bill Lester, an Engineer from LKC was present to announce that the Town has
been awarded funding to complete an Asset and Inventory Assessment/Study. The
competition was extremely competitive. The Town will be asked to submit a
$10,000 match for the $90,000 grant. Mr. Robinson and Mr. Lester discussed the
possible buy-out of the sewer capacity in the line between Carthage and
Southern Pines. Sewer capacity is the Town’s weak point and unless more
capacity is developed, the growth of Carthage will be stunted. All needed sewer
improvements total about $3.7 million dollars. Carthage has already exceeded a
(20) year capacity plan in only (8) years. Commissioner Wilson left the meeting
at 10:52 a.m. Mayor McGraw excused those present for a quick break.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles and Tom Robinson mentioned to the Board that here are
many possible subdivisions proposed in the Town. Kathy Liles also explained the
status of the Bike/Pedestrian Plan and explained a map that was provided to the
Board. A final plan proposal should be completed by May. In order to apply for
certain grants, the Town must adopt a Parks and Recreation Plan. Mr. Robinson
discussed the Downtown Development/Improvement plan that was completed by the
consultant, Hilary Greenberg. Mr. Robinson would like to have the Town Planner
a few more hours each week to work implementing a downtown committee. Mayor
McGraw said that he would like to hear more people coming to Carthage for
positive things. The Town will start working on preserving the old jail that is
located at Caviness Park. Also, staff will look into recruiting Eagle Scouts to
work on park development. Tom Robinson and Kathy Liles gave an update on Code
Enforcement cases. The Town is in need of a revised Land Use Plan and revised
Unified Development Ordinances. Some of this can be done using staff, but other
organizations and companies could also help the Town make changes. Ms. Dutton
gave a summary of the LED Message signs. Mr. Robinson suggests that it be a
budget item, if the Board decides to install a sign. The Town could consider
asking for donations for the cost of the sign or also selling advertising fees
for local businesses to use.
X.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
The Mayor asked for any other comments from the Commissioners. Commissioner
Phillips said that he appreciates what the Town is doing and he can tell a
difference in the last few years. Mayor Po-tem Dowdy that a Board should be
educated and informed on issues and if all the departments are working together
and have mutual respect, the Town will be effective. Any interested Board
members will provide their information to the Clerk be added to an emergency
response list serve. Commissioner Nance said that he is excited to see where
the Town is going, becoming more family friendly and growing.
XI.   ADJOURNEMENT:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, Mayor McGraw
adjourned the meeting at 12:08 p.m. All in favor. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      _____________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 19, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 19, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, March 19, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch, Marc Phillips,
George Wilson and Christopher Nance. A quorum. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy was absent.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Assistant Public
Services Director Allen Smith, and Police Chief Bart Davis. Others present
include Sister City Committee members Roland Gilliam, Felice Schillaci and Jim
Wiltjer. County Planning Director, Debra Ensminger and two representatives from
the NC Department of Transportation and citizens Daryl Russell and Pete Dowd.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.    PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes February 19, 2018
   B.   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Minutes February 19, 2018
   C.   Board of Commissioners Planning Workshop Minutes March 3, 2018
VII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Daryl Russell, local resident and owner of Buggytown Coffee approached the
Board about an increase in the feral cat population in Town. He has lived in
Town since 2004 and has buried multiple cats, rescued kittens and worked with
the Human Society. He and his family love animals, but feral cats have become a
much bigger problem. People are feeding them and then other wild animals are
drawn into neighborhoods. Also, the cats are using living areas as litter boxes
and often times, the cats carry diseases and fleas. Mr. Russell asks that the
Town inform the citizens about the issue so that the situation can be improved.
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   OLD BUSINESS:
Mayor McGraw accommodated a request to move business that was scheduled for
later in the meeting to the beginning. Ms. Dutton stated to the Board that the
Sister Cities Committee has been working hard to see the project through. At
the meeting in January, the Board approved the language that was presented for
the formal declaration between the Town of Carthage and Flavy le Martel, in
France. Ms. Dutton commented that three of the committee members were in
attendance at the meeting to take pictures of the historic event. The Mayor
signed the declaration. Roland Gilliam addressed the Board and thanked Felice
Schillaci and Jim Wiltjer for their dedication to achieving this goal.
IX.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the public hearing at 6:42 p.m. Town Planner Kathy Liles
explained that over the last few years, the Town has received many requests for
detached garages in the side yard of a property. Staff is asking the Board to
consider allowing detached garages in the side and rear yards in residential
zoning districts. The Planning Board made the recommendation to allow detached
garages in the side and rear yards. All other accessory buildings must continue
to be constructed in the rear yard. Ms. Dutton read a letter prepared by local
builder, Wayne Haddock of Pinehurst Homes. The Mayor closed the public hearing
at 6:46 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of the Land
Use Consistency Plan with regard to Detached Garages. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Nance, the Board approved the text amendment that would allow detached garages
to be constructed in both rear and side yards in residential districts. All
ayes. Motion carried.
X.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Copy attached which is and does become part of these minutes. Town Manager, Tom
Robinson announced that the Town was awarded state funds for the Asset
Inventory and Assessment Grant. Town staff will mention the feral cat problem
on water bills, Facebook and the upcoming newsletter. Mr. Robinson mentioned
that Town staff is developing plans to save the existing jail where the water
tower was. The Budget process is coming along and the Board should expect to
meet again in late April or early May to review the proposed budget.
XI.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton described a request to rezone a property on Summit Street,
identified as LRK# 00003144 and owned by Earl and Sue Payne. The couple is
hoping to rezone the property from R-20 to RA-40. This will allow slightly more
intensive agricultural uses on the property, in hopes that the property will be
more marketable. There are adjacent properties that are already zoned RA-40.
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the public hearing date to consider the rezoning of the Payne
property was set for April 16, 2018. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The item concerning fortified wine was removed from the agenda until
further notice.
   C.   Ms. Dutton asked the Commissioners and Mayor if they would be
interested in adding short biographies to the Town website and possibly
Facebook. During the last election, many residents called to ask questions
about the candidates and many people in Town don’t even recognize who is
representing them. The biographies can be as brief or lengthy as they would
prefer. Several examples of other municipalities was provided for comparison.
The Board agreed that it would be a nice addition to the website.
   D.   Kathy Liles explained to the Board that in order to apply for some
grants for funding the Bike and Pedestrian Plan, a Parks and Recreation Plan
would also have to be adopted. Ms. Liles stated that the Town is hoping to roll
the Bike and Pedestrian Committee into the Parks and Recreation Committee.
After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board agreed to roll membership from the Bike and Pedestrian
Steering Committee to the Parks and Recreation Committee. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   E.   Tom Robinson explained that the Town had requested at least eight
proposals from auditing firms. Three of those companies did submit a proposal.
S. Preston Douglas & Associates is recommended by Staff and are less expensive.
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board selected S Preston Douglas & Associates as the Town’s new
audit firm. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, the Board appointed Sherry Cagle to the Historical
Committee for a term to expire June 2021. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Road
Closure for the Buggy Festival May 12, 2018. All ayes. Motion carried.
A.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Scott Walston and an associate from the NCDOT explained the status of
the Moore County Comprehensive Transportation Plan and let the Board know of
upcoming meetings. Mr. Walston stated that the population in Moore County is
projected at at least 122, 000 by the year 2030. There are many phases of the
plan and are hoping to have the plan adopted by late summer 2018. Mr. Walston
mentioned the proposed Carthage Byway, but said that it was probably so far out
as eighteen years away. Mayor McGraw mentioned that Town staff is working hard
to revive the downtown area and businesses. He said that the byway should not
be planned so that it takes away from the progress and growth in our downtown
area. Mr. Robinson mentioned the need for a revised Land Use Plan. This would
ensure that Carthage would experience growth in the right areas. The NCDOT will
be holding community meetings to provide information to the citizens of Moore
County. The Carthage meeting is scheduled for April 9, 2018 at the Agricultural
Center from 2-4 p.m. Ms. Dutton will share that information on Facebook.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the March 13, 2018 Historical Committee
meeting. The Committee discussed possible future locations of the Museum. The
Committee agreed to create a planning subcommittee to take an inventory of all
the artifacts and reorganize the Museum.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Mayor McGraw said that he has been enjoying all of the events in Town. There
was an event over the weekend at Buggytown Coffee, a car show and the opening
of a new bookstore in Town. He hopes that there the events will continue. Tom
Robinson informed the Board that he had been asked to serve on the Architecture
Review Committee for the proposed Courthouse facility. Commissioner Phillips
said that he is enjoying the quiet this time of year.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XV.   CLOSING PRAYER: 
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 7:21 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 16, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
April 16, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, April 16, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch,
George Wilson and Christopher Nance. A quorum. Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy presided
over the meeting.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Planning Board Chair Chris
Sweet. Others present included David and Mary Lou Coffey, Don McCaskill, Sue
Payne and daughter, Joanne Coles and David McKew from Suez Water.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mr. David Coffey gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes March 19, 2018
   B.   Budget Amendment #22
VII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy opened the public hearing at 6:32 p.m. Ms. Dutton
explained that the Payne's would like to rezone the property because it is on
the market right now and most of the interest has been from families who would
like to have a small farm. They are requesting the property be rezoned from R-
20 to RA-40. This would allow more agricultural use on the property and would
keep the density down in the area. The Planning Board did not make a
recommendation to approve the rezoning because if rezoned, manufactured homes
would also be allowed. Poultry or swine farms are not allowed in the Town
limits at all. David Coffey addressed the Board and asked questions about how
the rezoning affects theTown and how many mobile homes would be allowed on the
property. Joanne Coles was concerned that the value of the neighboring
properties would decline. Don McCaskill asked about whether sewer lines would
be extended. Sue Payne addressed the Board and the adjourning property owners
and stated that the layout of the tract makes it difficult to subdivide the
property, but suggested that any development on the property would increase the
tax base. She said that she would not want the neighbors to be upset with
anything, but they are really hoping to rezone the property to be more
appealing to a prospective buyer. Commissioner Wilson said that he would be
worried about someone trying to purchase the property and subdivide it.
Commissioner Chalflinch said that he takes the neighbors comments seriously.
Commissioner Nance said that originally he did not have a problem with the
rezoning, but after hearing the neighbor's comments, he does not recommend
approving the request. Mayor Pro-tern closed the public hearing at 6:51 p.m.
After a motion by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson,
the Board did not approve the Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency
regarding the proposed rezoning on LRK# 00003144. The rezoning was denied. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER'S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reviewed again the Star Ridge Farm Subdivision and the letter that
was written to the County Manager. He mentioned that the interested parties
contacted him about the Little River property and said that they are still
interested. The Budget will be done shortly and the Board will be asked to have
a meeting in May or June to review. A new Police officer was hired. He will be
invited to the next Board meeting to meet the Commissioners. Automatic water
meters seem more feasible that first thought. The Town is hosting two meetings
on Wednesday, April 18, 2018. The residents of Savannah Garden were asked to
attend a 6:30 p.m. meeting to discuss ideas for the basketball situation. Then
at 7:00 pm., members of the general public were asked to discuss general parks
and recreation ideas for future facilities. The Bike and Pedestrian plan is in
the review phase, as the draft was just released recently. The Town Manager
reminded the Board that he is leaving Thursday and will be out of Town until
April 30, 2018.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   County Board of Commissioners Chair, Catherine Graham addressed the
Board about the proposed Bond Referendum to allow new schools and improvements
to be done. The County Board of Commissioners went on a tour of all the schools
in the County and they were shocked to see some of the conditions. The bond
would finance new elementary schools in Southern Pines, Aberdeen and Pinehurst
and make improvements to other existing schools. An addition $20 million would
fund the construction of a new nursing building at Sandhills Community College.
Better schools in Moore County means more taxpayers. Ms. Graham urged the Board
and all present to consider approving the bond on May 8, 2018.
   B.   Mr. Robinson summarized a meeting that was held between staff and
representatives from the NCDOT to discuss the proposed cost-share to build new
sidewalks and proposed bike lanes on NC 24/27 Hwy. Overall, the Town's portion
of the sidewalks is very reasonable, but the bike lane cost is far greater than
anticipated. Mr. Robinson makes the recommendation to agree to the sidewalk
plan, but not to the bike plan. Instead NCDOT will add two more feet to the
road plan that will allow more space for possible bicycle riders. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the
Board agreed to fund the Town 's portion of the sidewalks in the amount of$
10,850 and until everything is set in stone, the Town will continue to
investigate other avenues to fund the bike lanes. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Ms. Dutton described a variance request made by Michael and Elizabeth
Baddour to construct a 30 x 50 detached garage. According to the zoning
ordinance, accessory buildings, including garages, are only allowed to be up to
50% of the square footage of the footprint of the principal dwelling. The
principal structure is currently 1335 square feet. The Baddour's have many
large-sized vehicles including a bus, camper, boats and four-wheelers. They
prefer to house them in one garage instead of open in the yard. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
set the Board of Adjustment meeting for May 21, 2018 to discuss the Baddour
variance request. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Finance Officer, Kesha Matthews discussed the replacement of the police
cruiser that was totaled in an accident. A budget amendment would also have to
be approved. About half of the cost of the vehicle was paid to the Town via
insurance coverage. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the purchase of a new vehicle. All
ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded
by Commissioner Chaljlinch, the Board approved the budget amendment a/locating
fund balance to pay for the balance on a new vehicle. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Ms. Matthews explained the audit contract. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chaljlinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved
the proposed audit contract with S. Preston Douglas and Associates. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   F.   Ms. Dutton and Chief Davis explained the reemergence of electronic
gaming. The topic is extremely complicated and because our authority is
limited, staff is proposing a text amendment is approved that would place
harsher zoning requirements on the use. Commissioner Wilson asked if an ALE
agent would be able to attend the next meeting to help clarify the policies.
After a motion made by Commissioner Chaljlinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board set the date for a public hearing to discuss electronic
gaming for May 21, 2018. All ayes.
Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
Davis McKew addressed the Board with updates on the water plant. He said that
at first, they were concerned with the loading on the filters and decided to
use a pre-treatment system. Since then, the removal ratio has almost doubled
and less water is used during the filtration process. Recently, a chlorine bum
was done to the water system. By switching the alternate chemical, it shocks
the system and more contaminants or build up in the lines gets flushed out. The
state water inspector has made several complements on the Town of Carthage
water department. Commissioner Nance said that he would like to tour the water
plant. Ms. Liles updated the Board on an older Code Enforcement case that has
been dismissed. The Town received a check for $2600 for the lien dismissal at
308 Rockingham Street. Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy said that the Town needs to be
consistent with every side of town and every person. Ms. Liles also explained
the status of the Bike and Pedestrian Plana and Park and Recreation master
plan. She reminded everyone that there is a meeting in the Fire Department on
Wednesday, April 18. Savannah Garden will be discussed as well as general Parks
and Recreation. The Committee agreed to not rush the plan in order to apply for
grant funding. Instead, the Town will take more time to really listen to the
residents.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the March 26, 2018 Appearance
Committee meeting. The Committee set April 17, 2018 to plant the spring
flowers. Also, Sharon from Possum Run Nursery has donated not only her time,
but also a planter arrangement. The committee will sell raffle tickets as their
fundraiser at the Buggy Festival this year.
   B.   Ms. Dutton summarized the Planning Board meeting from April 5, 2018.
The Planning Board did not recommend approval of the rezoning of LRK# 00003144
to the Board of Commissioners. Also, Chris Lassiter resigned as the Chair of
the Planning Board and Christopher Sweet was appointed by the committee.
   C.   The Historical Committee let on April 10, 2018 and mainly discussed
donation information retention and also discussed the upcoming terms that will
be expiring in June 2018. Joanna King suggested the committee start nominating
folks and voting can take place at the next Committee meeting.
   D.   Tom Robinson told the Board that Dina Tharp and the Town Clerk have
done an exceptional job at soliciting and receiving donations for this year's
Buggy Festival.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Nance said that this month has been relatively quiet for him.
Commissioner Wilson stated that he really wants the bike lanes to be installed.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chaljlinch, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor Pro-tern at 8:10 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk         Milton Dowdy, Mayor Pro-Tem
MAY 21, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
May 21, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, May 21, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch, George
Wilson, Marc Phillips and Christopher Nance. A quorum. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy
presided over the meeting.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police
Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner and Planning Board Chair Chris Sweet.
Attorney Kelly Dawkins was present representing a resident in the Board of
Adjustment hearing.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Wilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS-
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board approved the revised agenda with the addition of the
appointment to the Relief Fund Board added under New Business. All ayes. Motion
carried.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes April 16, 2018
VII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
IX.
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy opened the public hearing at 6:32 p.m. Ms. Dutton explained
the proposed text amendment that would restrict electronic gaming operations to
the HCD, TBD and I Zoning districts. The proposed text amendment would also
create a separation requirement between any electronic gaming use and
residences, churches or schools and between each gaming establishment. The
hours of operation are from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday-Saturday and closed on
Sundays. The Town Clerk explained the request by the Planning Board to be
consistent with the separation requirements that are established. Commissioner
Wilson was comfortable establishing a 1000 foot separation between each
electronic gaming business and each church, school and residence. Commissioner
Phillips agreed. Commissioner Chalflinch was in support of a 1000 foot
separation between each gaming business, and 500 feet between a gaming
operation and a church/school and residence. Commissioner Nance requested
eliminating the separation requirement completely. Police Chief Bart Davis
explained that so far, electronic gaming has not caused any issues in Town, but
he is waiting to hear back from the state and about receiving more training and
education with regard to electronic games. Mayor Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy suggested
the Board approve something for now, as it can always be amended at a later
date. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy closed the public hearing at 6:51 p.m. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
approved the Resolution in Support of the Land Use Plan with regard to the
Electronic Gaming Operations. Commissioners Chalflinch, Wilson and Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy all voted in support of the Resolution. Commissioners Nance and
Phillips voted opposed to the Resolution. Motion passes with majority.
Commissioner Wilson made a motion to approve the proposed text amendment
limiting electronic gaming operations to the HCD, TBD and I zoning districts
and establishing a 500 foot separation requirement between such operations and
any church, school or residence and a 1000 foot separation requirement between
each electronic gaming operation. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch. Mayor Pro-tem also voted in support of the text amendment.
Commissioners Nance Phillips voted in opposition of the text amendment. Motion
passes with majority.
X.   CLOSE REGULAR MEETING:
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Regular meeting was closed and the Board of Adjustment Meeting was opened
at 6:58 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OPEN THE REGULAR MEETING:
After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Nance, the Board of Adjustment meeting was closed and the regular meeting was
re-opened at 7:25 p.m.
XII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reviewed the letter that was received back from the County Manager
regarding the water service for the Star Ridge Subdivision. Mr. Robinson
announced that the FY 2018-2019 budget is ready for Board to review. The water
plant recycling upgrades would save the Town so much money, the upgrades would
be paid for in three years’ time. The Town would like to move forward with
painting the museum. In October 2018, Cycle NC will be coming through Carthage.
Approximately 900 cyclists with stop in Carthage to refresh themselves and will
be interested in learning more about Carthage and its heritage. The
Transportation Museum in East Spencer will be accepting the loan of a Tyson-
Jones Buggy for a two year time frame initially. They have requested
supplemental materials to add to the display. The Historical Committee is going
to work on gathering some pictures and other items to send.
XIII.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Fire Chief Brian Tyner approached the Board of Commissioners and
requested that they appoint a new member to the Relief Fund since Artie Barber
had resigned. Scotty Scott would like to serve. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board appointed
Scotty Scott to serve on the Relief Fund Board. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   B.   Ms. Dutton explained that changing our zoning ordinance to include
Electronic Gaming Operations also means updating our Town Code definitions. The
definition of Game Room was updated to include up to three (3) video or
electronic games or other paid devices or tables. After a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved
the Town Code Amendment as presented. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   C.   Mr. Robinson and Ms. Dutton updated the Board on all of the Parks and
Recreation plans and projects. The Ellie Jean Project leadership attended the
community meeting in hopes of working with the Town to build or renovate an
existing park into an all-inclusive park. They have been holding fundraisers
and area also ready to apply for some grants. They visited the Nancy Kiser Park
and also feel that a renovation could be done to bring it into compliance.
Kathy Liles has applied for one grant to help the Town spruce up the Caviness
Town Park. The Town will continue working on applying for grants and looks
forward to working with the EJP. The County is working on a new Master Plan for
the Hillcrest Park. Once we receive a new master plan, it will be made
available. 
   D.   The Town Manager reviewed the proposed budget. There are a few things
that will be changing, such as the Town’s insurance provider, a 2% COLA and
potential spending on the Downtown improvements, a new Land Use Plan and new
Christmas lights. There is not expected to be any tax rate increase at all this
year. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board set the date for the public hearing to discuss and approve
the proposed budget for the next Regular meeting on June 18, 2018. All ayes.
Motion carried.
XIV.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Town Manager Tom Robinson and Ms. Dutton gave the Board an update on
code Enforcement. Two properties are scheduled for sale at the courthouse on
May 23, 2018. The house that burned on Old Glendon Road will resume the
demolition soon and the home that burned on Saunders Street will be transferred
back to the original owners and then demolished. Ms. Dutton will be sending
letters out to the Carthage Handwash & Detail about their banner sign and also
to the impromptu    car wash at Frank’s about obtaining proper approvals.
   B.   LKC has finished their report and assessment on the Town of Carthage
Water    System. Included in the report, are suggested System Development Fees.
The    study has to be available to the public for forty-five days before a
public hearing    is held. Ms. Dutton will place the study online. The fees are
set at the discretion of the Board. Also, recently the Courts set the statute
of limitations for Impact fees at three years.
   C.   The Town requested bids from several water tank maintenance companies
and asked those companies to provide information in the same format. Based on
the bids that were received back, American Tank Maintenance offered the best
price for services at $19,408 a year. After a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips    and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved to enter
into contract with American Tank Maintenance. All ayes. Motion carried.
XV.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the May 3, 2018 Planning Board
meeting. The Planning Board discussed electronic gaming and the proposed text
amendment. The Committee asked the Board to as consistent as possible when
establishing separation requirements. They did not approve of the Consistency
Statement, but recommended that the Board approve the text amendment with the
changes that were presented.
   B.   Ms. Dutton summarized the Historical Committee meeting from May 8,
2018. The Committee will be selecting new committee leadership at the next
meeting. The Committee will work to gather extra artifacts to send with the
buggy to the Transportation Museum.
XVI.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Chalflinch commended Town Staff and volunteers for a great job at
the Buggy Festival. Many other Commissioners agreed and said that they had a
great time attending. Commissioner Wilson wanted to express gratitude to the
Police Officer who delivered his agenda packet. She was very pleasant and
polite. Commissioner Phillips said that he was glad to be back in Town and able
to attend the meeting.
XVII.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XVIII.   CLOSING PRAYER: 
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XIX.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor Pro-tem at 8:21 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 21, 2018 (BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
MAY 21, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Adjustment held a meeting on Monday, May 21, 2018
at the McDonald Building, during the Regular Board of Commissioners meeting.
Present were Marc Phillips, George H. Wilson, Jr., Christopher Nance, Jimmy
Chalflinch and Milton Dowdy. A quorum. Lee McGraw was excused from the meeting,
as he was out of town.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Works Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief
Brian Tyner. Mr. Kelly Dawkins was present to represent his parents as adjacent
property owners. Michael and Elizabeth Baddour were present to discuss their
variance request.
The purpose of the meeting was to consider a variance request by Michael and
Elizabeth Baddour. A variance was requested to construct an accessory detached
garage that is larger than what the Development Ordinances would allow.
I.   Call to Order:
The regular meeting was closed and the Board of Adjustment was called to order
at 6:58 p.m.
II.   New Business:  
Milton Dowdy swore in Ms. Dorothy Dutton, Michael Baddour and Kelly Dawkins.
Ms. Dutton requested that all documents presented will be entered into the
records. Ms. Liles summarized the request for a variance to allow the Baddour’
s to build a 30 x 55 detached garage to store multiple large recreational
vehicles. The building would be constructed on LRK# 00004329, just north of the
house and would meet all of the required setbacks for the RA-40 zoning
district. The building will be constructed of a neutral metal siding and the
garage bay doors will face the existing home. Kelly Dawkins’ parents purchased
the property across the street and are currently building a new single family
residence and detached garage. Mr. Dawkins stated that his parents are building
a 2000 square foot home and a detached garage that is in compliance with the
zoning regulations. They took careful consideration for the placement of the
home and driveway to make it more pleasing to the neighbors. Mr. Dawkins
believed that a building this size is essentially a commercial building and has
no place in a residential zoning district. Michael Baddour addressed the Board
and stated that while the building will be large, it will still look better
than having multiple, brightly colored recreational. He explained that while it
is a rental property currently, they plan to return to the home one day. Mr.
Baddour said that he would be willing to plant trees all the way down NC 22
Hwy, if it was preferred. Mr. Dawkins and Mr. Baddour began discussing the site
plan from their seats. The Commissioners discussed the planting of trees and
whether a compromise could be reached between the Baddour’s and the adjacent
property owners. Ms. Dutton read through the Findings of Fact aloud. Ms. Dutton
explained that she sent the adjacent property owners maps of their property in
relation to the Baddour tract and an explanation of the request. Following a
motion made by Mr. Chalflinch and seconded by Mr. Phillips, the board approved
the variance request by Michael and Elizabeth Baddour to allow a 30 x 55
detached garage on their property at 5501 NC 22 Hwy or LRK# 00004329, with the
following conditions:
   1.   Serious consideration should be made for neighboring properties.
   2.   Adjacent property owners should be consulted as to the final location
for the placement of the detached garage.
   3.   If no compromise can be met, trees shall be planted along the building
and some along NC 22 Hwy to act as a buffer between the garage and the
neighboring properties.
All ayes. Motion carried. A copy of the Final Order is attached to these
minutes and incorporated herein by reference.
After a motion made by Mr. Chalflinch and seconded by Mr. Nance, Mr. Dowdy
adjourned the Board of Adjustment meeting at 7:25 p.m.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Chairman
JUNE 18, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
June 18, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, June 18, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch, George
Wilson, Marc Phillips and Christopher Nance. A quorum. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy
presided over the meeting.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Also
present was Charlie Cooper, several members of his family, Michael Gast from
the Carthage American Legion and Billy Ransom from the Moore County Parks and
Recreation Department. Commissioner Chalflinch was excused by the Board at
approximately 7:15 p.m. for an important engagement.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Nance gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS-
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes May 21, 2018
   B.   Board of Adjustment Meeting Minutes May 21, 2018
   C.   Budget Amendment # 25
   D.   Triangle J Resolution Updates
VII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy opened the public hearing at 6:31 p.m. Tom Robinson, Town
Manager explained that the tax rate will not be increased this year and there
will be no increase in any rates. Mr. Robinson read a list of possible items to
consider for the upcoming year. There were no questions about the budget. Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy closed the public hearing at 6:34 p.m. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and Commissioner Phillip, the FY 2018-2019 Budget was
adopted as presented. All ayes. Motion carried
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson explained that the new fire truck had been inspected by Chief
Tyner in South Dakota. It will be delivered in July 2018, more than likely. The
water tank maintenance contract was challenged and is being researched before
the Board has to approve it. Tommy Phillips and his brother will be donating
buggies at the next meeting. System Development Fees are being considered at a
staff level. The Board will be able to review them soon. Mr. Robinson explained
that he was selected to serve on the new courthouse selection committee. Also
included in the Manager’s Reports were department activity reports for the
month.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Billy Ransom, representing the County, spoke to the Board about the
proposed upgrades to the Hillcrest Park. The original park was developed in
1994. Once the facilities are completed, all of the youth basketball games can
be played there. Currently, they are using nine different schools. The splash
pad should be ready or next year. The swimming pool is too expensive to
construct. Mr. Robinson mentioned doing a hotel feasibility study. The
commissioners all agreed that the plan sounded like a nice addition. 
   B.   Ms. Dutton explained that she met Charlie Cooper because he came into
the office to discuss his uncle. Johnny Ralph Holder served in the military and
was deployed from Japan to Korea at the start of the Korean War. Ms. Dutton
read the proclamation for Mr. Johnny R. Holder aloud. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved
the Proclamation for Johnny Holder. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Ms. Dutton explained the request for multi-family dwellings at the
corner of S. McNeill Street and Pinehurst Ave. The request involves three lots:
LRK# 10001033, 00002812 and 00006743. Two of the lots will host one duplex
each, or two (2) dwelling units. The middle parcel will host two duplexes, or
four (4) dwellings. Because of the building code and the shared wall, the
middle units will be considered townhomes. Mr. John O’Malley has applied for
the permits. The homes will be constructed with very safe, energy efficient
materials. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the public hearing date was set for July 16, 2018 to
consider the conditional use permit for multifamily housing on S. McNeill
Street. All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   The Town Clerk explained the request for a non-contiguous annexation of
a 22.69 acre tract on Priest Hill Road. The property, owned by the
Milcendeau’s, is already within the Town’s ETJ and will not require rezoning.
The request was made because the property owner needed access to Town water.
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Wilson,
the Board directed the clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the annexation
petition received by the Micendeau’s. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
accepted the Clerk’s Certificate of Sufficiency with regard to the Milcendeau’s
annexation request. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board set the
public hearing for the Milcendeau’s annexation request for July 16, 2018 at the
regular meeting. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Staff has requested to become a member of the Municipal Insurance Trust
of North Carolina, administered by the NC League of Municipalities, for our
medical insurance. The Town already participates with MIT for our dental,
vision, and life insurance. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution and
membership with the Municipal Insurance Trust of NC. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   Town Clerk, Dorothy Dutton explained that there were four members of
the Historical Committee whose terms were expiring this month. Bill Perkins and
Paul David have decided not to seek reappointment. Lillie Mae Barrett and Greg
Hayes have both asked the Board for reappointment. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
appointed Lillie Mae Barrett and Greg Hayes for new three-year terms to expire
in June 2021. All ayes. Motion carried. In addition, the Committee would like
to elect new leadership positions within the Committee. They have asked the
Board for approval of the following positions: Chair-Joanna King; Assistant
Chair-Antoniette Kelly; Treasurer-Bert Patrick; Curator-Carol Steed; Assistant
Curator-Lillie Mae Barrett. After a motion by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the new leadership positions
as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Town Manager Tom Robinson mentioned to the Board that staff would like
to get moving on the Downtown Development strategies and plans. Town Planner
will be working more hours so that she can work more closely with the downtown
   group. Also, there is now money reserved in the Budget to help with the
start up. Commissioner Nance was very glad that the downtown plan was about to
kick off.
   B.   The Town of Carthage has been awarded a Water Asset Inventory and
Assessment grant. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
   Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Resolution to accept the grant
funds and provide any information that is required. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Bridge financing is required for three (3) months until Central
Electric comes through with their payment. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved using First
Bank to finance the fire truck until the grant funds are received. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
   D.   Ms. Dutton gave an update on several properties in Carthage that have
been or are current code violation cases. Two of the properties have been sold
at the courthouse steps. Two of the properties are due to be demolished soon.
Mr. Robinson mentioned Mr. Charles Watson’s property at 202 W. Barrett Street.
   Because there does not seem to be an agreeable time line for bringing the
home into compliance, the Town is more than likely moving forward with
condemnation.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   The Appearance Committee met on June 11, 2018 and discussed their
finances after the Buggy Festival. Nancy McKenzie thanked the Town Manager and
Clerk for all of their help. She also wanted to thank Tom and Becky Prim for
all the extra things they do for the committee. The Appearance Committee
discussed what to do for Sharon Chriscoe and Possum Run Garden Center to show
appreciation for all of her help. Ms. Dutton will look into an engraved granite
plaque that can be displayed at the Possum Run business. After a motion made by
Tom Prim and seconded by Becky Prim, the committee approved the engraved
granite plaque as long as the cost was $50.00 or less. Ms. Dutton and Mr.
Robinson will write up something to have it engraved.
   B.   Ms. Dutton summarized the minutes from the June 12, 2018 Historical
Committee meeting. The Committee elected new leadership. Also, A PhD candidate
from NC State is going to start helping the Committee reorganize the
collections in the museum and try to modernize the process. We are so fortunate
to have her expertise and the committee is looking forward to working with her.
The Historical Committee is planning on participating at the House in the
Horseshoe reenactment on August 4, 2018.
XIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy commented that all of the departments are doing a
great job. He also asked Kevin Kimball about how coverage was in the Public
Works department. Commissioner Wilson said that he was proud to serve on the
Board.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION:
None
XV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor Pro-tem at 7:42 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 11, 2018 (SPECIAL MEETING)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JULY 11, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held A Special meeting on
Wednesday, July 11, 2018 at 5:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners George
Wilson, Marc Phillips and Christopher Nance. A quorum. Commissioner Chalflinch
was excused as he was out of Town.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Code Enforcement Agent Dennis Pinnix, Town Attorney AL Benshoff and two
Carthage Police Officers. Also present was Moore County Planning and
Transportation Director Debra Ensminger and Moore County Chief Building
Inspector Chuck Hill.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
VII.
Mayor McGraw asked about whether Mr. Chuck Watson had been notified of the
meeting. The Town Manager addresses the Board and said that the property in
question had been a concern for several years, but it is time to act on it. The
Town cannot focus on other properties when the property at 202 W. Barrett
Street is such a huge concern. Mr. Robinson said that the house might be past
the point of repair. Mr. Pinnix will go over some pictures of the property with
the Board and then Mr. Benshoff will go over the procedure.
Mr. Pinnix went through several pictures of rotten portions of the home,
decaying chimney, missing shingles and sheathing. There were several windows
broken out, the column footings are collapsing and the porch is almost
completely unusable. Mr. Pinnix held a hearing and gave Mr. Watson (90) more
days to make significant progress. September 21, 2018 is the deadline. Mr.
Robinson said that we need to do a total evaluation of the inside of the home,
too. Mayor Pro-tem asked what role the County plays in this process. There is
currently an interlocal agreement between the Town and County for building code
and minimum housing inspections. Mr. Benshoff stated that the Town has the
authority to abate the nuisance and at the end, the Town can create a lien on
the property, as well as Mr. Watson’s other properties. If Mr. Pinnix’s order
is ignored, the Board would adopt an ordinance requiring action.
Debra Ensminger stated that the County requires an official request for the
County’s assistance in this matter. Mr. Pinnix addressed the Board and stated
that he has a moral conflict in this situation. He is worried that if the Town
does not act on this property, the building will decay to a point where Chuck
Watson could be harmed or even killed in the home. Mr. Pinnix asked that if the
Town does remove him from the property, we try to find a place for Mr. Watson
to go.
Mayor McGraw addressed the Board and other attendees. He stated that while
Chuck Watson is his second cousin, the house is in terrible structural
condition and the Town needs to address it; safety comes first. There was some
discussion about where Chuck Watson could go live once he leaves the house.
The Town Manager asked the Board if they are ready to move forward and will
give Town staff permission to arrange the interior inspection. The Board were
all in consensus to continue and perform the inspection and move forward with
any subsequent actions that might result.
VII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
VIII.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 6:20 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 16, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
July 16, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, July 16, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy
Chalflinch, George Wilson, and Marc Phillips. A quorum. Commissioner
Christopher Nance was excused from this meeting.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police
Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Police Officers Monique
Dilorenzo, Nicholas Foulk and Joshua McKenzie. Also present was Mirian and
Jonathan Watts, Kim Livengood, Lee Livengood, Cole Nunn, Danielle Orloff, David
Howard, Harry and Debra Powell, Machelle Bishop and Walt Marcinkiewicz.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS-
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes June 18, 2018
   B.   Board of Commissioners Special Meeting Minutes July 11, 2018
   C.   Budget Amendments #1 and #2
VII.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the first public hearing at 6:33 p.m. Ms. Dutton
explained that the Milcendeau’s request to annex their 22.69 acre tract of land
on Priest Hill Road. Their well has become unreliable and they have elected to
connect to Town water. There are currently three rental properties on the
tract, and two have already connected to public water, because of the urgency.
The third dwelling will connect to Public water in the next year. The property
is currently in the ETJ of Carthage, so this does not require any rezoning. The
public hearing was closed at 6:35 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the
Milcendeau’s annexation request for LRK# 94000132 and the map as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Mayor McGraw opened the second public hearing at 6:35 p.m. Ms. Dutton
swore in Mr. David Howard and Ms. Danielle Orloff. The two are representatives
from O’Malley Investments and Construction. They have applied for a Conditional
Use Permit to construct a total of (8) duplex units at the corner of S. McNeill
and Pinehurst Avenue. The project would be located on (3) parcels, identified
as LRK#’s: 10001033, 00002812 & 00006743. The area is zoned R-20. Mr. Howard
stated that the duplexes are going to be high quality residences and that the
project is based on the best and most use allowed on the property. Ms. Dutton
swore in everyone else that was to speak against the CUP.
   Mrs. Mirian Watts and husband Mr. Jonathan Watts, who reside at 893 S.
McNeill Street spoke about how their property would be adversely affected
because of the loss of privacy, possible decrease in property value and peace
and quiet. They also said the water run-off would likely affect the erosion on
their property. Recently, a large rainfall resulted in the washout of a
retaining wall.
   Ms. Kimberly Livengood who lives at 850 Pinehurst Avenue explained that she
canvassed the area talking to neighbors. She is concerned with the amount of
traffic the development will cause, the amount of impervious surface/water run-
off and how the project fits with the character of the area. She said that
property owners tend to take more pride in their homes and renters come and go.
Ms. Livengood said that the property lines shown in the site plan are not
correct and based on the site plan and the dimensions of the proposed
dwellings, she does not think that they will be able to meet the setback
requirements. She submitted pictures and the petition to the Board as evidence.
Mr. Robinson reminded the Board that this hearing is to approve the use only.
If approved, the Developer will have to submit for site plan approval with the
Planning Board and Board of Commissioners. Mayor McGraw shared all the pictures
and petition with the Board.
   Mr. Harry Powell resides at 612 S. McNeill Street. He stated that he and his
wife have spent the last two years renovating their home. He feels that
building the duplexes will tear down what they have worked so hard to build up.
They are adamantly opposed to the project.
   Machelle Bishop resides at 385 Pinehurst Avenue. She said that that
neighborhood is like family and they all watch out for each other. Many people
have worked hard to fix up their older homes instead of buying or building new
homes.
   Mr. Robinson added that the Board should determine whether the use fits with
the character and growth that is desired in the Town. Mayor McGraw asked the
audience if single family dwellings were built, would they be satisfied and
many people raised their hands. The public hearing was closed at 7:19 p.m. The
Town Clerk read the Findings of Fact out loud. After a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board denied
the Conditional Use Permit request for duplexes at the corner of S. McNeill
Street and Pinehurst Avenue, but did not cite a reason. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson explained that the new fire truck had should be here within a few
weeks after all of the equipment is installed. The water tank maintenance
contract has been reopened and new bids and proposals are being requested. Code
Enforcement is moving along well. Action will be taken on 202 W. Barrett
Street, 103 Old Glendon Road and 511 Vass-Carthage Road. Mr. Robinson explained
that there have been a lot of problems with the water meter readings lately. We
are currently researching other options. The Town has started receiving bids
for a hotel feasibility study and the Century Committee has offered to
contribute half of the cost of the study, up to $3500.
Commissioner Phillips asked if there were any grants available for the
automatic readers. Town Manager said they would continue to look into that
avenue.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Police Chief Bart Davis addressed the Board and audience. He spoke
about the legacy of William Kyle Ferrell, a Town of Carthage firefighter who
wanted to be a police officer. Mr. Ferrell was killed tragically when as a
Marine, stopped to help a disabled driver in Maryland. The William Kyle Ferrell
Award is also called the “Service Before Self” award and the 2017 recipient is
Monique Dilorenzo. She received an award and her name is listed on a new plaque
that will hang in the Police Department office.
   B.   The Town Clerk stated that Ashley Bibey has requested appointment to
the Appearance Committee. She is quite involved in the community and currently
works for Green Haven Nursery in Southern Pines. The Appearance Committee are
in support of her appointment. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch
and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the appointment of
Ashley Bibey to the Appearance Committee with an expiration of June 2021.
   C.   Ms. Dutton asked the Board about sending or presenting Certificates of
Appreciation to any Board or Committee members whose appointment term has
expiring and are not seeking reappointment. Commissioner Wilson said that
showing appreciation is always a great thing the Board was in agreement to
implement this policy.
   D.   The Town Manager suggests updating the Town’s Land Use Plan. The Town
should be able to use Fund Balance to pay for it. The Council of Governments is
one of the more affordable options at $25,000. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board agreed
for the Town Manager to continue seeking bids to complete the LUP. All bids
will be put before the Board before anything is selected.
   E.   Ms. Dutton asked the Board to let her know about attending the
CityVisition Conference by the end of the week so that she can make
preparations.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton stated that the Town is now advertising got the “Meet and
Greet” the    Mayor events. One of the meeting is scheduled at Buggytown Coffee
on Friday, July 27 from 8:30-10:30 a.m. The following Monday, the meeting is
scheduled for Time Out Sports Grill from 6:30-8:00 p.m.  Postcards have been
mailed out and we are hoping for a big turnout.
   B.   Town Clerk, Dorothy Dutton stated that the NCDOT has finished up their
review Of the Bike and Pedestrian Plan. Staff hopes it will be ready for
adoption at the August meeting.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   The Historical Committee met on July 10, 2018. The Committee will be
working more closely with the House in the Horseshoe. They are also still
working with Sylvia Bailey to help get the collections reorganized.
   B.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS: Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy commented that all of
the departments are doing a great job. Commissioner Wilson said that he was
proud to serve on the Board. Mayor McGraw said that he thought the meeting went
well; everyone was very respectful of each other.
   D.   CLOSED SESSION: None
   E.   CLOSING PRAYER: Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
   F.   ADJOURNMENT:
      Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 7:50 p.m. All
ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk         Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 20, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
August 20, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular scheduled
meeting on Monday, August 20, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy
Chalflinch, Christopher Nance and Marc Phillips. A quorum. Commissioner George
Wilson was absent from this meeting.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police
Chief Bart Davis, Town Planner Kathy Liles and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Also
present were Bill Lester and Mark Lacy from LKC Engineering, Town Attorney TC
Morphis, Planning Board Chair Chris Sweet and Town residents James Russell and
Kevin Lewis.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS-
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes July 16, 2018
   B.   2018-2019 Transfer of Funds-Transfer A and B
   C.   Write off Delinquent Accounts from 2013
VI.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson announced that the Town has a new Code Enforcement officer named
Brandon Emory. His company is called Alliance Code Enforcement and we are
already seeing some positive results. The Town has about (4) possible
subdivisions in the works. In order to be able to service all of those
dwellings, the Town has to do something about increasing its sewer capacity.
Mr. Bill Lester will be able to help us address some possibilities later in the
meeting. Mr. Robinson has contacted a few companies about completing a hotel
feasibility study for the Town. The Century Committee has offered to pay for
half of the study, up to $3500. Ms. Dutton and staff helped plan two separate
meet and greets with the Mayor, but attendance was not very good. We hope to
advertise for a while longer next time and also will invite more to attend. Mr.
Robinson, Ms. Liles and Ms. Dutton will be traveling to Troy, NC, to discuss
their downtown development and Main Street Program.
The Town of Carthage is scheduled to being mediation on one of the lawsuits
involving impact fees at the end of September. The Town might be responsible
for a large portion of the attorney’s fees. The Town has retained Landscape
Design Innovation Group to design a concept plan for Caviness Park. We will
seek a concept plan from other company’s before making any decisions.
Leslie Clothier, founder of the Ellie Jean Project is very much interested in
building an all-inclusive park here in Carthage, for disabled children. The
Town suggested that she use the one acre tract that is adjacent to the Town
Hall Building on US 15-501 Hwy. She will bring a more concrete concept plan to
a future meeting for Board approval. Mr. Robinson will be out of the office
from September 4-September 14, 2018. And he will also be attending the
CityVision conference on September 20-21, 2018 in Hickory. The Town was able to
secure all of the remaining funds from USDA for the construction of a 12”
waterline along Union Church Road and the construction of the water plant
pretreatment facility. Water tank maintenance estimates and proposals are still
being collected. It might be more financially reasonable to just hire a company
to do an interior and exterior cleaning once before we obtain a maintenance
contract.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Town Manager Tom Robinson mentioned that the Town has at least (4)
possible developers interested in subdivisions in Carthage. Pete Dowd has met
with Town staff to discuss the Southbury subdivision between Pinehurst Avenue
and the existing Savannah Gardens. Quality Built will be submitting for the
next phase of Savannah Garden soon. We have met with developers to discuss a
proposed subdivision across from Union Church Road. Those plans should be
submitted soon. And finally, David Chapman, one of the perspective buyers of
the Little River Development explained that the legal ownership might be theirs
in the next few months.
   B.   Mr. Robinson explained that there is legislation that makes it possible
to implement System Development Fees for development. The fee would help the
Town pay for system expansion to support the growth of the system itself, as
well as pay for the capacity of the existing system. Before implementing a SFE,
an analysis must be completed to justify the fees. LKC Engineering has
completed the analysis and it was posted to the Town’s website for over forty-
five days. There must be a public hearing before the fees and program can be
adopted. Mr. Robinson is concerned that if our fees are too high, they will
deter people from building and living in Carthage. He suggested lowering the
tap fees to $1500 to provide some relief from the new fee. Commissioner
Phillips asked if the fees would be passed on to the homeowners or be the
responsibility of the developers? Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy cautioned that the high
fees would run people off. He would prefer if there were different fees for
running lines on short sides. Mr. Robinson stated that they would change the
proposed fees to reflect the different sides. Most of Board was not interested
in scheduling a Special called meeting to hold the public hearing. After a
motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the
public hearing to discuss System Development Fees was set for September 17,
2018. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Ms. Liles introduced the idea of Conditional Zoning to the Board. For
Conditional Zoning, quasi-judicial hearings are not required. Negotiations can
be made for each project instead of have strict regulations and conditions.
This zoning protects the Town in some ways. The Board was interested in
revisiting this topic and perhaps pursuing a text amendment.
   D.   Mayor McGraw awarded Mr. Paul Davis and Bill Perkins certificates of
appreciation for their time served on the Historical Committee.
   E.   Moore County has asked that we include a flyer in our next water bill
mailing that explains the tax increase. The County will pay the expense, but it
would help them disseminate the information. The Board agreed as long as it
would state that it was from the County and not the Town.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
None
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   The Historical Preservation Commission will have their first meeting on
Friday, August 24, 2018. Ms. Dutton attending a HPC staff training workshop in
June. A couple of HPC members as well as Ms. Dutton and Ms. Liles will be
attending a workshop in September for training.
   B.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS AND BUSINESS: Mr. Robinson informed the Board
that Kesha will be out having surgery for between two-four weeks beginning
August 30, 2018. Ms. Dutton is learning to do payroll and some of the other
accounting work for this time. Ms. Matthews will be available by phone some of
the time and will have access to the records while she is at home recovering.
   D.   CLOSING PRAYER: Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
   E.   CLOSED SESSION: Pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11, the Board moved to Closed
Session at 7:32 p.m. to consult with our attorney, to protect attorney-client
privilege.
   F.   REGULAR MEETING: The regular meeting was reopened at 8:06 p.m. Mayor
McGraw expressed concern that Town Staff might be overwhelmed because of cross
training and having too much responsibility. He is worried that the Town is
missing grant opportunities. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that there used to be a
part time intern that worked on just grants. Mr. Robinson agreed to look into
implementing an Internship program.
   G.   ADJOURNMENT:
   Following a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor McGraw at 8:19 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
September 24, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their rescheduled regular
meeting on Monday, September 24, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy Chalflinch,
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Wilson and Marc Phillips. A quorum. Mayor Lee
McGraw was unavailable and Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy presided over the
meeting.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief
Brian Tyner, Fire Captain Darrell Sauls, and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Also
present were Bill Lester LKC Engineering, Brandon Emory with Alliance Code
Enforcement, Moore County Board of Commissioners Chair Catherine Graham and
Moore County Board of Education Chair Helena Wallin-Miller.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS-
None
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes August 20, 2018
   B.   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting Minutes August 20, 2018
   C.   Budget Amendments #3 & #4
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
The public hearing to discuss the System Development Fees Analysis and
Discussion was opened at 6:33 p.m. Mr. Robinson discussed the reason behind the
System Development Fees and asked Mr. Lester to explain the analysis that was
done. Using the recommended methods, LKC Engineering was able to calculate what
the SDF rates should be. These suggested rates would allow the Town to balance
the resources used and the planned growth. Commissioner Phillips asked if any
other municipalities had implemented the SDF and experienced any lawsuits or
legal issues. Because the SDF are so new, there has not been any legal
opposition yet. Mr. Lester confirmed that the study and suggested fees are in
compliance with the state guidelines. The public hearing was closed at 6:37
p.m. and the regular meeting was resumed.
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson announced that Cycle NC will be stopping in Carthage on October 3,
2018. The Town Clerk has been working on the arrangements. As part of those
preparations, staff is hoping to provide a special treat for the riders,
something that might be more traditional to this area. The Town is working on
installing an AMI Water System. It will be more beneficial to the Town to have
a feasibility study completed instead of going straight through a vendor.
Recently, the Town Manager, Ms. Liles and Ms. Dutton visited the Town of Troy
to discuss the Main Street Program. It will be helpful to visit a few more to
help get some ideas for revitalizing the downtown. Mr. Robinson stated that he
sent the letter to Regan Parsons with the Town of Southern Pines offering to
purchase the remaining capacity in the 14” line.
IX.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy introduced County Board of Commissioner Chair,
Catherine Graham and he approached the Board. She first thanked the Board and
Town staff for all of their service. She described the great need to improve
schools and build new schools in Moore County. The County approved the bond
referendum for school improvements. This one-quarter cent sales tax increase
will help the County pay back the bonds and keep the County property taxes from
going up so much. The County Board of Commissioners is asking the
municipalities to adopt the Resolution. The sales tax increase will not be
applied to groceries, gasoline or prescriptions and will overall have very
little impact on the wallet. For example, a $300 television, will only increase
by $0.75 cents. Commissioner Phillips was concerned that sales taxes would be
raised again in a short period of time. Ms. Graham said that it can only occur
once by law.
   After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of the one-quarter cent
Sales    Tax increase. Commissioner Nance voted in opposition of the
Resolution. The Resolution was approved by majority and carries. Mr. Robinson
said that a brochure regarding the sales tax increase would be included in the
next newsletter mailing.
   B.   Mr. Robinson explained that in order to implement System Development
Fees, they must be added to the Town Code of Ordinances, specifically Chapter
51. After a    motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Nance, the Board approved the amendment to the Town Code of Ordinances, Chapter
51 adding System Development Fees. All Ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Mr. Robinson explained the proposed amendment to the Budget Ordinance
and Fee Schedule. The tap fees were reconsidered and lowered to allow for the
addition of the System Development Fees. All of the proposed changes were
highlighted on the example provided. After a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the
Amendment to the Budget Ordinance and Fee Schedule as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   D.   Ms. Liles addressed the Board about concerns they had about grant
opportunities. She    created a chart that indicates that Carthage, because we
are often grouped with the    rest of Moore County, are not eligible for many
grants. In addition, our poverty rate is lower and our median household income
is great than other municipalities. There are a few strategies that will help
Carthage possibly obtain grant funding such as find partners and Angel donors,
consider projects that promote diversity, and also be able    to match funding
for projects. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy asked Staff to work on trying to
obtain grants for certain areas in Town that are not as well off. Maybe using
their demographics, those areas would be able to obtain funding.
   E.   Fire Chief Brian Tyner approached the Board and asked if the retired
fire truck could be donated to the Sandhills Fire Academy. It is unlikely that
the Town would make a lot of money off of the truck if it was sold. Donating
the truck would keep the Town from maintaining the truck or providing one
during training at the academy. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the request to donate the
1979 Emergency One Pumper to the Sandhills Fire Academy. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   F.   Ms. Dutton explained that she had received an application for a text
amendment to change the ordinances on electronic gaming operations. The request
was to allow operations in the B2 zoning district, as well as to reduce the
separation requirement. After some discussion about the existing ordinance, a
motion was made by Commissioner Chalflinch to dismiss the request without
consideration at this time. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All
ayes. Motion carried. The Board stands by their previous separation
requirements and zoning districts.
   In addition, Ms. Dutton stated that currently, there is no maximum number of
electronic games that would be allowed as long as the zoning requirements are
met. It has been suggested that this issue is corrected with a text amendment
and the Board can set the public hearing for the next meeting, if it wishes.
After a motion made by Commission Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson,
the Board set a public hearing to discuss the maximum number of electronic
games that would be allowed, for the next regular meeting on October 15, 2018.
All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner    Wilson, the Board set a public hearing to discuss
homestays for October 15, 2018 at    6:30 pm. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy would like for Town Staff to provide some examples
and    evidence of signage and sign regulations at the next meeting. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the
Board set a public hearing to discuss window signage calculation for October
15, 2018 at 6:30 pm. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board set the
public hearing date for October 15, 2018 to discuss and adopt the Bike &
Pedestrian Plan. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board set October 15, 2018
to hold a public hearing to discuss the Moore County Comprehensive
Transportation Plan. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked Staff
to bring maps of the proposed by-pass and the Needmore Community to the next
meeting.
   H.   Ms. Dutton suggested that the Town host a fall community event. The
event could be held at Nancy Kiser Park one evening. The participants can bring
their own pumpkins and the Town will provide carving tools and stencils. Light
refreshments will be served. Commissioner Phillips suggested a Halloween movie
be shown. Mayor Pro-tem inquired about the National Night Out events in which
the Police Officers come out so that the public can get to know them. The Board
was in consensus of such an event and encourage Ms. Dutton to proceed with
planning.
X.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Mr. Robinson introduced Andy Honeycutt from MeterSYS. MeterSYS has been
working in North Carolina for many years. AMI vendors used to come in and sell
   equipment to municipalities without knowing if the system or equipment was
right for the municipality. MeterSYS is dedicated to the Public utility, they
do not take    any money from vendors and act as an advocate for the local
government. There are three parts to their program: Feasibility Analysis,
Selections and Program Management. They are familiar with implementation with
various software that is    used for water billing. AMI’s (automatic meter
infrastructure) use radio frequency or wireless communications to transmit
water meter readings on a daily basis to a designated area. AMR’s (automatic
meter reading) allows for easier collection of    readings, but still requires
someone to drive past all of the meters, so the readings would be on a monthly
basis. Leaks are more easily identified using the AMI systems. The feasibility
study costs $17,900. The proposed contract with MeterSYS will be sent to the
Town Attorney’s to review.
   B.   On October 3, 2018, Cycle NC will be riding through the Town of
Carthage on their Mountains to Coast Tour. Upwards of one-thousand cyclists
will be coming through Carthage via NC 24/27 Hwy. They will be able to see the
murals before stopping over at the Museum for refreshments and a restroom
break. Ms. Dutton is working on ensuring the appropriate number of volunteers
and museum coverage by the Historical Committee. In addition, Town Staff would
like to provide a special refreshment for the cyclists. Ms. Dutton is working
on obtaining estimates on chopped barbeque or banana pudding. There was Board
consensus to pursue one of the two items for the cyclists.
   C.   Brandon Emory, with ACE, addressed the Board as the Town’s new Code
   Enforcement Company. He inherited 33 cases from the previous code
enforcement company. They have already abated many cases and have made a strong
presence in    Carthage. Their approach is to find people and speak to them in
person. People can also go through his website and submit E-Violations. He also
provides people with a list of important Town numbers when he speaks with them.
   D.   The Triangle J Council of Governments is hosting a workshop/summit on
Thursday, September 27, 2018 to discuss economic development. MR. Robinson and
Commissioner Nance are attending.
   E.   Central Electric Cooperative is ready to complete the paperwork for the
zero interest loan on the new fire truck. The closing will most likely take
place once Kesha Matthews returns to work. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the
Resolution to Accept the Zero-Interest Loan provided by CEMC. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   The Historical Committee met on September 11, 2018. They are pleased
that the volunteer Sylvia Bailey will be able to help them throughout the year,
one Friday a month. They are working on preparing for the Holiday Tour of
Homes. Many members of the Committee will be participating during the Cycle NC
event on October 3, 2018.
   B.   The Mural Committee wants to personally invite the Commissioners and
Town Staff to the celebration of our newest mural on Thursday, October 18,
2018.
XII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS AND BUSINESS:
Commissioner Nance, Commissioner Chalflinch, Commissioner Wilson and Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy all commented on what a great job Town staff did during the storm.
Commissioner Wilson said that he was blown away by how many calls the Fire
Department responds to. Commissioner Phillips mentioned the Veteran’s Day
celebrations are November 10, 2018.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
Pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11, the Board moved to Closed Session at 8:45 p.m. to
consult with our attorney, to protect attorney-client privilege, after a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips.
XIV.   REGULAR MEETING: 
The regular meeting was reopened at 8:55 p.m. after a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XV.   CLOSING PRAYER: 
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
Following a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the meeting was adjourned by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy at 8:56 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
OCTOBER 15, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
October 15, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, October 15, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy
Chalflinch, Christopher Nance, George Wilson and Marc Phillips. A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Assistant Public Services Director Allen Smith, Police Lt Heath McKenzie, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Also present were Scott
Walston with NCDOT, Matt Day with the NCARPO, Leslie and Brandon Clothier with
the Ellie Jean Project and Roland Gilliam. There were several other members of
the community present in support of the EJP.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS-
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board approved the updated agenda as provided.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes September 24, 2018
   B.   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting Minutes September 24,
2018
   C.   Budget Amendments #5, #6, #7, #8 and Transfer C
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
There were four public hearings scheduled.
   A.   The first public hearing to discuss the text amendment adding Homestays
to the zoning ordinance was opened at 6:32 pm. Ms. Liles explained the reason
behind the request and also the Special Requirements that would be placed on
the use. The public hearing was closed at 6:34 p.m. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Resolution in
Support of Land Use Consistency regarding Homestays was approved. All ayes.
Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the text amendment adding Homestays to the Town
Development Ordinance was approved as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   The public hearing to discuss electronic gaming operations was opened
at 6:35 pm. Ms. Liles explained that the Town needs to establish a maximum
number of games that would be allowed. Ms. Dutton mentioned that most districts
only allow it as an accessory use and the Town will still have to go back and
establish a maximum occupancy for these uses. One fish table can host up to
eight players. If a business has four fish tables, that would be thirty-two
people playing plus spectators, which could become a problem. The public
hearing was closed at 6:40 p.m. The Board postponed any decisions in order to
add some new language to the proposed amendment.
   C.   The public hearing to discuss the Bike & Ped Plan was opened at 6:41
p.m. Kathy Liles presented information about the Bike and Pedestrian Plan. The
Planning Board recommends approving the Plan contingent on adding the cost
estimates for improvements around Courthouse Square. McGill and Associates have
not given the Town or NCDOT the corrections or additions as requested. Mayor
McGraw asked if the County was in good standing for the plan, and also
suggested the Board wait to adopt the plan in hopes that they will have the
requested information soon. The Board agreed.
   D.   Scott Walston and Matt Day were present to explain the Moore County
Comprehensive Transportation Plan. NCDOT collects data and tries to project it
into the future to anticipate future growth and patterns. Mr. Walston explained
some of the handouts and maps that were provided. The County is asking for
local adoption by November 6, 2018 so that they can move forward with the plan.
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that he had expected to see the exact path of the
proposed by-way and he isn’t comfortable approving anything until the location
is verified. The people of Needmore might not have a lot, but it is his job to
represent them. Roland Gilliam said that the by-way has been proposed since the
1980’s and he wonders if it will ever be a priority. Matt Day said that the
plan has evolved some from a busier three-lane road to a two-lane road with
slower speeds. The public hearing was closed at 7:11 p.m. While the Board
seemed overall in support of the plan, they decided not to make any decisions
until they are given a map that shows the specific route.
VIII.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reported that LKC has been helping the Town select a contractor to
do a one-time cleaning and repainting of the water tower. The lowest bid was
from a company in Hamlet, NC for $58,000. He can sign the contract, but there
was an item on the consent agenda to transfer the money to the correct fund.
Recently, we discovered that the Fire Chief in Southern Pines is hoping to
realign the Fire Districts on NC 22 so that their district would increase. Mr.
Robinson has already contacted County Manager Wayne Vest as a way to resolve
the issue. In addition, the proposed subdivision has been postponed while the
developer negotiates the Fire Insurance Ratings. Once the subdivision becomes
part of the Town limits, they will be graded as a District 10. A District 10
might make it more difficult to obtain financing or fire insurance.
      The Cycle NC event took place on October 3, 2018 and was a big success.
Many of the cyclists visited the Museum and asked lots of questions about
Carthage. They also enjoyed the banana pudding. The Public Works department has
done an incredible job at the hurricane cleanup. The Town will be applying for
FEMA reimbursement on the roof repairs, by pass pump rental and also the extra
sewer processing fees. Included in the Manager’s Report is information about NC
State flags and when they can be lowered. Roland Gilliam has suggested that the
Town help pave the entrance back to the reservoir that would also benefit the
Air Museum. There is only a $4,000 difference between paving one lane or two.
Two lanes would ultimately be more durable for the big truck that goes to the
Reservoir. The Board seemed supportive of at least splitting the expense. Mr.
Gilliam stated that it should be the last thing to happen on the site, so that
it won’t get damaged by the other equipment.
      Mr. Robinson mentioned that there are many election signs out and around
in Carthage. Currently, our ordinance limits the amount of yard signage a great
deal. Unless the Board requests that we strictly enforce the ordinances, they
are too prolific to monitor. Staff will look into amending that section of the
Zoning Code. Woodlake is applying for Incorporation. Currently there is a
developer who wants to transfer designated wetlands from Wilmington to
Woodlake. This would create a marsh where the lake used to be. Incorporating
would allow more protection for the area and would only affect sales tax
revenues a small amount.
VIV.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Leslie Clothier and the Ellie Jean Project spoke to the Board and staff
about the possibility of building an inclusive playground for all children,
regardless of handicap. The slides represent the Play by Design Company and
much that they have to offer in a playground. The park would sit on an acre or
an acre and a half. There would be both Regular Ed and Special Ed playground
equipment and ramps so that everyone can access the play area. Mrs. Clothier
would like to install zip lines, tactile activity walls, merry-go-rounds and
bridges to connect each section. Overall, the budget would be $275-300,000. Mr.
Robinson stated that the Town would have to build restroom facilities and
improve the parking area. Everyone involved was supportive of using the lot
next to Town Hall, but more logistics would have to be worked out before the
Town officially offers the property. Mr. Robinson said that it would be nice to
also consider developing soccer fields for the community. There was a general
consensus to move forward with the project development.
   B.   Ms. Dutton explained that she had neglected to ask two members of the
Planning Board about reappointments at the end of June. Connie Burns and Chris
Lassiter’s terms expired at that time, but they have both agreed to serve
another term. The Planning Board made a recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners to reappoint them both for a 3-year term. After a motion made by
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approve
the reappointment of Connie Burns to the Planning Board for a term to expire
June 2021. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the
reappointment of Chris Lassiter to the Planning Board for a term to expire June
2021. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Kesha Matthews explained that FEMA requires official representatives be
selected to help with the FEMA reimbursement and reporting processes. Kesha
Matthews and Kevin Kimball attended the FEMA meeting prior to this Board
meeting. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board appointed Kesha Matthews as the primary
representative and Kevin Kimball as the secondary representative for filing
FEMA claims and acting as the representatives. All ayes. Motion carried.
X.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   The Board agreed to postpone the selection of an LED message sign until
the audit report is completed and the impact fee settlements are closed. They
will hopefully be able to revisit the topic at the November meeting.
   B.   The CityVision Conference has been rescheduled for May 14-16, 2019 in
Hickory. If any of the Commissioner’s would like to attend, they should let Ms.
Dutton know so she can schedule and make reservations.
   C.   The Fall Movie and Pumpkin Carving Night is scheduled for Tuesday,
October 16, 2018 at Nancy Kiser Park. Popcorn, drinks, and candy will be
provided. Also, there will be tools for carving the pumpkins. We hope that
attendance is good.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
   A.   The Planning Board met on Thursday, October 4, 2018. They reviewed
several items. They made a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners to
approve the text amendment for Homestays and the proposed amendment for
electronic gaming operations. They discussed the proposed Bike & Pedestrian
Plan and recommend adoption of the Plan contingent on adding the cost estimates
of the Courthouse Square improvements. The Planning Board did not pursue a
recommendation on the Moore County Comprehensive Transportation Plan at this
meeting. They wanted more time to review the document, particularly the maps
involved Carthage.
   B.   The Appearance Committee met on October 8, 2018 at 5:00pm. They
discussed some ideas for Caviness Park and what to do for the Firefighters to
show their appreciation. They agreed to order pizza and pick up a sheet cake
and deliver it one evening when there are having a meeting. Nancy McKenzie
stated that the Prims would be taking over as Co-chairs of the committee,
probably after the first of the year.
   C.   The Historical Committee met on October 9, 2018 at 5:15pm at the
Carthage Historical Museum. The Committee honored Paul Davis with a plaque and
some refreshments. Then the Committee discussed homes for the Tour of Homes and
how the museum reorganization is moving along.
XII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS AND BUSINESS:
Commissioner Nance said that Town staff has done a great job cleaning the Town
up and providing security when    needed. Commissioner Phillips asked Town
staff to look into repaving Morgan Street. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and
Commissioner Chalflinch said that they both see Staff out working and have
gotten a lot of compliments about them. Commissioner Wilson thanked the Clerk
for her dedication to the Town. He also reminded the rest of the Board about
the ribbon cutting for the newest Mural. It is scheduled for October 18, 2018
at 5pm. Dan Bonillo asked if the Board would like for him to create a plaque to
commemorate former Mayor Jimmy Riley. But the Board was worried it wouldn’t be
fair because we haven’t done that for everyone.
XIII.   CLOSING PRAYER: 
Mayor Lee McGraw gave the closing prayer.
XIV.   CLOSED SESSION: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Board closed the Regular meeting and opened the Closed Session at 8:15 p.m.
pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11, the Board moved to Closed Session at 8:45 p.m. to
consult with our attorney, to protect attorney-client privilege, after a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Phillips.
XV.   REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
The regular meeting was reopened and adjourned at 8:35 p.m. after a motion made
by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
NOVEMBER 19, 2018
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 19, 2018
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, November 19, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Jimmy
Chalflinch, George Wilson and Marc Phillips. A quorum.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance
Director Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Also present were Scott Walston with NCDOT, Matt Day with the NCARPO, Nancy
McKenzie and Ashley Bibey from the Appearance Committee, Reverend Jerry Dowdy,
Jim Ford with McGill and Associates, Mike Whitaker from Greenhaven Plant Farm,
Dustin Smith and Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS-
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board approved the updated agenda as provided.
V.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes October 15, 2018
   B.   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting Minutes October 15, 2018
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
None
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reported that the water tank cleaning is being postponed until
spring. Mr. Robinson recently met with Wayne Vest, Bryan Phillips and Brian
Tyner to discuss the proposed fire district changes. More information is on the
agenda for later in the meeting. The Town’s audit report is being finalized and
will be presented to the Board at the next meeting. After several questions
were asked about burning lately, Ms. Dutton prepared a Burn Policy. This
information will be placed on the website and Facebook. Ms. Kesha Matthews
recently attended an ADA workshop. It is required that the Town report back to
the state about ADA compliant facilities. She will work to get this report
completed. Recently, several staff members spent most of the day with MeterSys
to discuss the existing meter reading, billing and payment systems that are in
place. Hopefully, the information will be helpful as they look to recommend a
company for Automatic Meter Readers. The Town of Carthage was approved to
submit an application to recycle our own wastewater. This will be a huge
savings. Southern Pines has decided to keep their capacity on the line down NC
22 Hwy. As a result, Mr. Robinson will start looking into installing a new line
either on NC 22 Hwy or US 15-501 Hwy. The information will be discussed at the
Spring Board workshop. Mayor Pro-tem asked about water quality. At times, the
water leaves stains or dark rings in the toilet. Town staff will have the water
plant check on the conditions. Mr. Robinson also said that the Public Works
Department would flush the lines more regularly.
X.   OLD BUSINESS TO HEAR FIRST
   A.   Mr. Jim Ford, the Carthage Bike and Pedestrian Plan representative from
McGill and Associates presented a summary to the Board. He went over the vision
statement and practical recommendations for implementing the plan. Uneven or
broken sidewalks were identified as the biggest obstacle for walking the
downtown area. There is some state and federal resources for funding, but many
times those programs require match for funding. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked about
including areas like Needmore or Dowd Road for future projects. After a motion
made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board
adopted the Town of Carthage Bike and Pedestrian Plan as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   B.   Ms. Kathy Liles revisited the Moore County Comprehensive Transportation
Plan with the Board. Mr. Scott Walston with NCDOT was present to answer any
questions. There has been more detail added to the plan, particularly of the
Needmore Community. Street names were added to the map. If any changes need to
be made, it will be easier now that the Town has adopted the Bike and
Pedestrian Plan. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board adopted the MCCTP as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
XI.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Kathy Liles explained to the Board that a grant opportunity had
been found and the Town has submitted an interest letter. This particular grant
is a physical activity and nutrition grant through the Department of Health and
Human Services. The grant could help develop trail heads, park connections or
wayfinding signs. African Americans are about 19% more likely to die from heart
disease. This ties in with the Needmore area, which is in need of community
improvements like sidewalks, signs, etc. Reverend Jerry Dowdy was present, as a
representative for the Needmore Community. He said that the community is very
interested in working with the Town and offered to help plan a community
meeting for Town Staff to go and speak to the community. Everyone was in
agreement that the grant application should move forward.
   B.   Ms. Nancy McKenzie and Ms. Judi Kelly have asked to step down from the
Appearance Committee effective December 31, 2018. They both have growing health
concerns and need to take care of themselves. They have recommended Tom and
Becky Prim to take over as Chair and Co-Chair of the committee. At the Prim’s
request, Ms. McKenzie and Ms. Kelly will serve as mentors as needed. Ms.
McKenzie introduced Ashley Bibey to the Board and thanked the Town staff,
Public Works and the Firefighters for all of their help over the years. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded my Commissioner Chalflinch, the
Board approved the resignation of Ms. McKenzie and Ms. Kelly and the
appointment of Tom and Becky Prim to serve as the Chair and Co-Chair of the
Appearance Committee effective December 31, 2018. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Mr. Robinson said that recently a driver was using Suggs Street in Town
and damaged their vehicle because of the large potholes. Currently, Suggs
Street is not covered by the Powell Bill. There are options to close the
street, but Mr. Robinson suggested that the Town try to add the street to the
Powell Bill and get more funding to help maintain it instead of abandoning the
street. He asked that the Board postpone the discussion until more information
can be obtained.
   D.   Mr. Robinson informed the Board that recently, Green Haven Plant Farm
met some Town Staff at the Caviness Park to discuss improvements. Matt Whitaker
from the Plant Farm was present to discuss the plan. They tried to keep the
plan low maintenance and colorful year round. The crepe myrtles would remain,
but several new cherry trees would be planted, as well as new shrubs and
perennials. Greenhaven would like to start the paver placement while it is
cooler outside. They will more than likely start after the first of the year.
The Board would like to have everything completed by the Buggy Festival next
year. Ms. Nancy McKenzie suggested selling bricks as a fundraiser. The bricks
can been engraved and set in memory of someone or just to list the family
members. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the appropriation of funds for this
project and also to hire Green Haven Plant Farm to complete the project. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Ms. Matthews explained that Town employees have requested their
Longevity pay before Thanksgiving, so that they can use the money for Christmas
shopping. The longevity pay was paid a bit early last year and this year. Ms.
Matthews suggested that the Board permanently make those changes to the
Personnel Policy. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded
by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Resolution to amend the
Personnel Policy as it pertains to Longevity pay and eligibility. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   F.   Mr. Robinson introduced the Engine Braking Ordinance to the Board.
Large trucks will sometimes downshift their engines as a way to slow down
instead of using their regular brakes. This causes very loud noises in town,
particularly coming into town from NC 24/27 moving east. Chief Davis said that
there is actually not as much speeding as some people think there is in that
area, but the engines do cause a nuisance. The Carthage PD would issue a
warning and put the information out in the public before they started issuing
tickets. The ordinance would be enforceable all over the City. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
approved the amendment to the Town’s Code of Ordinances regarding Engine
Braking as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   Ms. Dutton explained that there seems to be a proliferation of dog
waste in the public areas of the downtown. The Police Department is already
working to locate the irresponsible pet owner. In the meantime, she and Chief
Davis suggest installing several dog waste stations in the downtown area. If we
are at least providing these stations, and someone does not clean up after
their pet, we are in a better position to issue a ticket. Ms. Dutton and Mr.
Robinson said that these stations are becoming more common in progressive
towns. Ms. Dutton suggests placing them by existing trash cans, to allow for
easy disposal. The Board was fully supportive of adding these to the downtown
area.
   H.   After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board agreed to cancel the December 2018 meeting. All ayes.
Motion carried.
XII.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   At the last Board meeting, staff was asked to make changes to the
proposed electronic gaming ordinance to set a maximum number of individuals who
can be in the gaming vicinity. This maximum is 16 people. Other changes include
a maximum of four games total. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, the Board set the public hearing for
January 22, 2019 to discuss the Electronic Gaming Operation ordinance. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Tom Robinson explained the fire district issues that have come up in
areas of new development. While the Town does not want to lose any revenue, the
primary goal is public safety. The Town will only lose a very small portion of
land area and our Fire Department will still respond if the situation is
critical.
   C.   Ms. Dutton described the pictures and quotes that were included in each
estimate. Because of the large right-of-way area on US 15-501 Hwy, the McDonald
Building seems like the most feasible location. Most of the Board agreed that
$25,000 was a maximum they would approve to spend on the sign. The Board
directed Ms. Dutton to acquire one more estimate and wait until the January
meeting to decide on which model they prefer.
XIII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton explained that the Planning Board minutes would be included
at the next meeting.
   B.   Ms. Dutton summarized the Historical Committee business and described
the Tour of Homes that is taking place on December 2, 2018 from 2-5pm. There
are eight locations on the Tour, including some of Carthage’s first residences.
   C.   Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Appearance Committee business. The
Christmas trees will be placed out in Town on November 26, 2018.
XIV.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Commissioners Phillips and Chalflinch commented on how nice the
Christmas decorations look this year. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked if the Town had
enough candy for the parade. Mr. Robinson invited the Board to attend the
administering of Oath to several County Commissioners.
XV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   CLOSED SESSION: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by    Commissioner
Phillips, the Board closed the Regular meeting at 8:29 p.m. and took a short
break before the Closed Session was opened. Pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11, the
Board moved to Closed Session at 8:37 p.m. to consult with our attorney, to
protect attorney-client privilege.
XVII.   XV. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
The regular meeting was reopened and adjourned at 8:57 p.m. after a motion made
by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
DECEMBER 2018
Meeting Cancelled.
2019 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 22, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JANUARY 22, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Tuesday, January 22, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. The meeting
was moved to Tuesday because of the Martin Luther King holiday.
Present were Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners George Wilson and Marc
Phillips and Christopher Nance. A quorum.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance
Director Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Also present were Lee Grissom with S. Preston Douglas & Associates, the
auditing firm, Virginia Minichiello, Karen and Bob Curtis, Bonnie Matthews and
several others representing the Equal Rights Amendment. Also in attendance were
several Town employees who were being recognized: Billy Rouse and family, Jack
Caddell and family, Dina Mayes, Rudy Allgood, Darrell Sauls, Heath McKenzie and
family, Crystal Krieger and Wesley Coleman. Other Town resident’s that attended
include Dustin Smith and William Bullen.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Mr. William Bullen approached the Board addressed the Board to disgust the
Equal Right’s Amendment. He said the more rights you give to some people, the
more you take away from others. He was concerned that the amendment would
create special rights for some people and would result in the government paying
for gender-reassignment surgeries for people. He asked the Board not to approve
the Resolution in support of the Equal Right’s Amendment.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes November 19, 2018
   B.   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Meeting Minutes November 19, 2018
   C.   Budget Amendments #9, #10, #13, #14 and #15
   D.   Agenda changes as presented that evening (the addition of the Audit
report)
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the public hearing was opened at 6:35 p.m. to discuss the proposed Electronic
Gaming Operations amendment. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Dutton described the
proposed changes to the Electronic Gaming Operations Amendment. These changes
establish a maximum number of machines as four (4) that can be at any location
and also a maximum of sixteen (16) people are allowed in the gaming area. The
Zoning districts where gaming is a permitted use will remain the same. The
public hearing was closed at 6:39 p.m. following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried. The
Board of Commissioners approved the Resolution in Support of Land Use
Consistency regarding the Electronic Gaming Operations Amendment following a
motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All
ayes. Motion carried. The Board of Commissioners approved the amendment
regarding Electronic Gaming Operations, as presented, following a motion made
by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reported on the sidewalk situation on S. McNeill Street. A
representative from the League of Municipalities went to inspect the damage and
feels like the Town would be able to support a legal claim, if needed. Town
sewer expenses could well be over the budgeted amount of $400,000 for the year
because of all the rain we have received so far. The Town has quite a bit of
subdivision activity including the Southbury subdivision and two involving Ron
Jackson. Before we can commit to too many subdivisions, the Town must work
towards expanding the sewer capacity, especially with Little River potentially
being redeveloped. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked about whether the Senior Living
Center or other commercial businesses were still interested in Little River.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Matthews explained that the Town has established an Employee
Service Recognition program. The Town will award the employees each year, but
this is the first time, so there are several. Several individuals received the
engraved writing pen: Wesley Coleman, Heath McKenzie, Darrell Sauls, Ryan
Allgood, Dina Mayes and Kesha Matthews. For at least ten years, a glass
paperweight was awarded. These recipients were: Crystal Krieger, Jack Caddell,
Brian Tyner, and Bart Davis. And finally, Billy Rouse received a clock for his
21 years of dedicated service to the Town. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy congratulated
them all and said that he is always very proud of the employees.
   B.   Ms. Virginia Minichiello from the League of Women Voters, spoke to the
Board about the Equal Rights Amendment. If taken to the Federal government and
approved, this would be the 28th amendment. While the Constitution does not
prohibit equal rights, there is still legal inequalities. Women pay more for
healthcare, experience inequality in salaries, and legal protections.
Commissioner Phillips stated that he sees this amendment as a partisan issue
and said that he feels men and women are given equal rights. Commissioner
Wilson stated that he believes it is a long and arduous fight to recognize
individuals and feels that the Board should entertain the Resolution and
amendment. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy suggested that the Board table the issue and
that the Town Clerk and Manager do more research and report back to the Board
at the next meeting.
   C.   Mr. Lee Grissom with S. Preston Douglas & Associates, gave a summary of
the audit report. He said for this being the first year working with the Town,
it went very smoothly. He said that there were no new accounting policies and
no disagreements with management. He mentioned that because of the size of the
staff, the segregation of duties was not as clean as it should be. There are
few things that can be done to correct this, expect for hiring more staff. The
Town had an increase in unassigned fund balance this past year, the net fund
increased by one million dollars over the past year. Mr. Grissom pointed out
that pages 42-46 might be most helpful to the Commissioners.
   D.   Kathy Liles explained Conditional Zoning to the Board of Commissioners.
Staff has been working with the Planning Board to develop language for a new
section of the Development ordinances. Establishing Conditional Zoning allows
for more flexibility and negotiation in permitting. The language can always be
tightened up if problems arise. When conditions are placed on a project using
conditional zoning, both parties have to agree to all of the conditions, or the
zoning approval is denied. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board set the public hearing for
February 18th, 2019, to discuss the Conditional Zoning Amendment. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   E.   Mr. Robinson explained that because we are not able to acquire the
capacity from Southern Pines from the 14” sewer line, our expense to install a
new sewer line is going to be great. As a way to offset the cost, the Town can
increase the System Development Fees as long as the Town follows the correct
procedures. The public hearing can be set for 45 days out as long as things are
advertised according to state laws. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson
and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board set the public hearing for
March 18, 2019 to discuss the possible System Development Fee increase. All
ayes. Motion carried. In addition, Ms. Dutton explained to the Board that
several other fee rates are outdated and need to be increased just so the Town
can break even with certain processes. Staff suggests increasing the rezoning,
conditional use and annexation fees to $300 and the cost of postage. There will
also be a new minimum commercial zoning permit of $25.00 and a mobile food
vendor permit of $25.00. The entire fee schedule can be adopted at the March
meeting after the public hearing on System Development Fees.
   F.   Ms. Dutton addressed the Board about some changes to this year’s Buggy
Festival. The Committee met earlier in the month and decided to allow beer/wine
vendors and also friendly dogs. The Committee will sell wristbands and check
ID’s to monitor underage drinking. A limited number of vendors will be allowed
and the drinking can be contained to a specific area of the Festival. With the
addition of the dog waste stations in the downtown area, the Committee would
like to allow dogs to the festival. If the dogs are not being tending to, or
are aggressive, the owners will be asked to leave. Mayor Pro-tem was concerned
about people that have phobias or allergies to dogs. Ms. Dutton reminded him
that the Police department, Town staff and Festival Committee will be on hand
to help regulate both the beer/wine and dogs. Ms. Dutton asked the Board to
approve the Resolution in Support of Road Closure during the Buggy Festival.
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Road Closure for the 2019
Carthage Buggy Festival. All ayes. Motion carried.
   G.   Kathy Liles described the proposed traffic circle at the intersection
of NC 4/27 Hwy and US 15-501 Hwy. She said that the primary goals of a highway
are to move traffic the quickest. A traffic circle would prevent traffic from
going around quickly. Chief Davis stated that that area is one of the worst for
serious accidents.
   H.   Ms. Dutton explained that she had received two applications for
appointment to the Historical Committee. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board of Commissioners appointed
Tamara Lee and Matthew Wood to the Historical Committee for a three-year term
to expire January 2022. All ayes. Motion carried.
   I.   Ms. Kathy Liles explained that staff would like to amend some of the
policies and procedures that are in place for site plan or subdivision
approvals. Some of these include open space requirements and the location and
type of sidewalks required. The Planning Board has started working on these
changes, but more time is needed before any recommendations can be made. Ms.
Liles asked if the Board would consider setting a public hearing. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the
Board set the public hearing for March 18, 2019 to discuss the site plan and
subdivision ordinance changes.
   J.   Mr. Robinson stated that the County and NCDOT approved a proposed site
plan that will be developed on McCaskill Road, at the intersection with US 15-
501 Hwy. This area is not in the Town’s jurisdiction, but it does possibly
interfere with the realignment of NC 73 and McCaskill Road. This realignment
was approved through the Moore County Transportation Committee and was adopted
by Moore County back in September 2018. The Board agreed that the County should
have notified all the municipalities and perhaps the project could have been
submitted in phases. The Board all agreed to move forward with the appeal to
the County.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   The CityVision conference that was scheduled for September in Hickory,
NC has been rescheduled for May 2019. Ms. Dutton asked the Commissioners to
consider attending and let her know so that she can make arrangements.
   B.   Mr. Robinson reminded the Board that the Union Hills subdivision did
not annex into the Town limits because of the issues with the Fire Districts
and insurance ratings. He has already reached out to Senator McInnis and State
Representative McNeill about either being granted special legislation to allow
this particular to receive a better fire rating because of its proximity to the
Town fire station and/or changing the state laws regarding how fire districts
are measured. Mr. Robinson would like for the Board to consider approving a
Resolution that states the Board is in favor of requesting the special
legislation. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of seeking
the special legislation with regard to fire districts. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   As part of the NCDOT improvements on Monroe Street, there is a 10% cost
match that the Town is responsible for. The improvements would include new
sidewalks from Vass-Carthage Road to Hardee’s, and improved handicapped
accessibility. The funds do not have to be sent to the NCDOT right now, but the
Board needs to approve the cost share. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the 10% cost-
share that is required by the NCDOT for the improvements along Monroe Street.
All ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Ms. Liles explained that the Southbury subdivision phase that is being
reviewed was approved about two and a half years ago. This phase has sidewalks
and an emergency access. There are some concerns with drainage in nearby areas,
but they are being addressed separately. After a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board reactivation the
approved Southbury Phase One subdivision plat. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Brandon Emory, with Alliance Code Enforcement reviewed some of the open
cases with the Board. The hearing for 109 S. McNeill Street has been scheduled
already. This will ensure that we are following procedure in case we have to
pursue further action.
      1.   The owner of 103 Old Glendon Road has agreed to sign the property
over to the Town in order to clear the violations and eliminate the lien that
was placed on the property. The Town could hold on to the property for the
future bypass or sell it at fair market value. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved
the Resolution to accept the property     at 103 Old Glendon Road. All ayes.
Motion carried.
      2.   Mr. Emory gave an update on the property at 202 W. Barrett Street.
The structure is partially collapsed and there are numerous minimum housing
violations. Mr. Watson has had ample time to make repairs, and very little has
been done with the exception of a new roof that is being installed. The Town is
partnering with the County Building Inspections to perform an interior
inspection. The County has asked the Town to approve a resolution and sign an
Indemnity agreement the County Inspector can participate. An administrative
warrant will be obtained beforehand, but Mr. Watson might give access to the
inside. Based on what is discovered inside, Mr. Watson may be asked to leave
the home because it is not safe. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Ordinance which gives
the staff and Alliance Code Enforcement authorization to move forward with the
process.    All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the Resolution
in support of signing the Indemnity Agreement. All ayes. Motion carried. All
ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the Indemnity Agreement between the
Town of Carthage and the County of Moore for purposes of the inspection at 202
W. Barrett Street. All ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   The FY 2019-20 Budget planning is right around the corner and a retreat
or workshop should be set. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Budget Retreat and Workshop was set for
March 2, 2019 at 8:00 a.m. with a backup date of March 9, 2019. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   G.   Although previously approved, the Fire Truck donation to the Sandhills
Fire Academy must be officially donated by resolution. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved
the donation of the surplus fire truck to the Sandhills Fire Academy. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   H.   The LED sign has been selected and ordered. A photo of the sign is
included in the packet. The allocation of the funds was listed as a consent
item.
   I.   Ms. Dutton reported that the new trash receptacles and dog waste
stations have been ordered and installed. A map of the locations was included
in the packet.
   J.   Town staff has been reviewing different options for a fundraiser
selling brick pavers for Caviness Park, since the park is being renovated and
upgraded. There are two main companies that have been reviewed-Bricks R’ Us and
Brickmakers. Both companies seem to have a strong fundraising program that is
free of charge. Ms. Dutton mentioned that both companies have clip art that is
available for decorating the bricks, at a small fee. Also, the Town seal or a
buggy image could be created, allowing people to purchase that image on their
brick, if they so choose. Commissioner Phillips suggests placing a brick with
just the seal periodically in the brick work at the park. The Board agreed that
the prices should be reasonable and liked the idea of a special price at the
beginning of the campaign. Prices will be $75/$100 at the beginning and will go
up to $100/$125 after a certain period of time. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved
the brick paver fundraising campaign and select the company that is most cost
efficient for the Town. All ayes. Motion carried.
   K.   Ms. Liles gave a summary of the bicycle helmet grant. At this, the Town
will be receiving some bicycle helmets to give away, but we will have to wait
to see how many. The Town is planning on incorporating it with an educational
effort at Nancy Kiser Park with the Police and Fire Departments. In addition,
only six days after our application for the PAN grant, we were notified that we
were selected. Town staff is hoping to use this grant as a real opportunity to
work with the Needmore Community and create a new Small Area Neighborhood Plan.
The grant will pay for a half time intern, cameras, a laptop and the funding
can roll over for two or three years. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy suggested that staff
consult with Cheryl Degraffenreid and Jerry Dowdy, from the Needmore community.
Official representatives need to be assigned to sign paperwork. After a motion
made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance, Tom Robinson
was appointed to sign contracts on behalf of the Town of Carthage. All ayes.
Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, Kesha Matthews was appointed to sign Contract Expenditure
Reports on behalf of the Town of Carthage. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton stated that the Planning Board was comfortable moving
forward with the Conditional Zoning, but needed more time before a
recommendation could be made for Subdivision and Site Plan language. The
Planning Board met on January 3, 2019.
   B.   The Carthage Historical Committee met on January 9, 2019. With the
assistance of the volunteer Sylvia Bailey, the museum has created a new mission
and vision statement. In addition, there are two individuals who asked to be
appointed to the Committee. They now have eleven appointed members.
   C.   The Carthage Appearance Committee met on Monday, January 14, 2019. They
discussed managing the Christmas tree decorations and their condition after
being used for two years. They will get together to remove the string lights
and Ashley Bibey will look into making new bows. The Committee also discussed
possible flower ideas for the downtown in the spring.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioners Phillips said that the Employee Recognition program is a really
great program. Commissioner Wilson said that he hears some people complain
about their water bills, but he realizes it is because the people are paying a
month behind and it is their own fault. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that he
attended the MLK celebration and spoke on behalf of the Mayor and Town. He
really enjoyed it and said that everyone should try to be mindful of America’s
struggles. Overall, we are not far off from where we were when Martin Luther
King made his most memorable “I Have a Dream,” speech.
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XVI.   XV. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the meeting was adjourned at 9:06 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
FEBRUARY 18, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 18, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, February 18, 2019 at 6:29 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners George
Wilson, Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch and Christopher Nance. A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance
Director Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Bill Ransom, the Moore County Parks and Recreation Director was present and
well as Bill Lester and Mark Lacey with LKC Engineering. Also present were Town
residents Dustin Smith and Dan Bonillo.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes January 22, 2019
   B.   Budget Amendments #17
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the public hearing was opened at 6:31 p.m. to discuss the proposed Conditional
Zoning amendment. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Dutton defined how Conditional
Zoning would work to the Board of Commissioners. Conditional Zoning would allow
the Boards to have more freedom in establishing conditionals or requests on a
case by case basis. Unless all parties are agreeable to the terms, then the
permit cannot be issued. The section on Conditional Use permit would be removed
from the Zoning Ordinances. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board of Commissioners approved the
Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency regarding Conditional Zoning. All
ayes. Motion carried. The Board of Commissioners approved the zoning amendment
regarding Conditional Zoning, as presented, following a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson. All ayes. Motion
carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reported on that the East Spencer Transportation Museum has some
to pick up the Tyson Jones Buggy. It is on display there. The water tank is
scheduled to be painted in the next weeks. Town Staff is still working with
MeterSys to investigate obtaining automatic meters. Mr. Robinson mentioned the
upcoming Appeal hearing for a subdivision that was planned and obtained
approval to have Town Attorney represent him. A forensic engineer went to visit
the site where the retaining wall fell on McNeill Street. Mr. Robinson has been
in communication with David Chapman, who is the representative who has been
working with Little River. It seems that the construction of a sidewalk from
the Carthage Elementary School to McNeill will be approximately $240,000. Mr.
Robinson suggests that we try to get funded at least partially by NCDOT. Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy also asked the Board to ride around and try to prioritize the
sidewalks and streets that need to be repaired. Mr. Robinson shared a current
list of all of the projects that the Town is working on currently. Commissioner
Wilson was excited about the opportunity for a hotel feasibility study.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton introduced the Hillcrest Master Park Plan to the Board of
Commissioners. The original plan was introduced in the late 1980’s. The new
master plan includes: a new sports complex, splash pad, restrooms, picnic
shelters, sports field, walking trail and RV/bus parking. Mayor McGraw
requested that a swimming pool still be considered at a future point. Billy
Ransom, from Moore County Parks and Recreation was available to answer
questions about the plan. He explained that the County is focused on the needs
of the County at this moment, like centralized playing fields. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
approved the Hillcrest Master Park Plan as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Ms. Kathy Liles explained a variance request that was received by Moore
County. The proposed sports complex at Hillcrest Park was identified as being
taller than the zoning ordinances allow. The Town measures height from the
grade to the highest point of the structure. The building code measures height
as the average height of the building. Staff will research making appropriate
changes in the Zoning Ordinances so that the same methods are used. Fire Chief
Tyner was asked if there were any Public Safety concerns with the height being
thirty-eight feel tall and he stated that there were no extra concerns. A
ladder could be utilized from Whispering Pines or Southern Pines. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the
Board set the Board of Adjustment meeting for March 18, 2019 to discuss the
variance. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   The public hearing to discuss the System Development fees was set for
March 18, 2019. Since the fees were adopted with the schedule of fees, it was
made apparent that an increase of the sewer development fees was needed to
offset the cost of the new sewer line that is being considered.
   B.   The Town of Carthage is beginning the process of creating a design and
financing plan to address the low wastewater needs of the Town. LKC recently
completed the USDA project for upgrades to the Water Treatment Plant and other
improvements to the water and sewer system. At several recent meetings, the
Board discussed a plan to move forward and engaged LKC Engineering to present
the next steps and discuss potential alternatives and proposed financing
options. Bill Lester and Mark Lacey from LKC Engineering were present to
explain the status and answer any questions. After the Preliminary Engineering
Report is complete, the report, alternative analysis and environmental review
are used to determine potential funding agencies and sources. Contracts for
engineering design will be finalized based on selection of the preferred
alternative. There are currently (4) options at a minimum: upgrade the pumping
system and force main along the south section of NC 22 through to the
connection of the Moore County Outfall; upgrade the pumping system and install
a new force main along McCaskill Road and US 15-501 Hwy to the Moore County
Outfall; build a new treatment facility or alternative means of treatment; or
do nothing, which would prevent Carthage from growing. There were two financial
options mentioned, the USDA Rural Development offers 40 year-terms and possible
grant percentages. The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality has a
loan and grant program based on financial need. That is a (20) year program.
After a motion made by    Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board authorized LKC to proceed with the Preliminary
Engineering Report, Environmental review and Application. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   C.   Kathy Liles stated that staff had selected Bricks R’ Us as the vendor
for the brick paver fundraising campaign. She passed the brick around and the
Board preferred the sandblasted bricks better. There will be a special for the
first few months, $75.00 for a regular 4” x 8” brick. The 8” x 8” bricks will
be $115.00. The Town will provide a certificate and a paperweight donor brick.
Staff would like to have the brick campaign available at the Buggy Festival.
The Board asked Ms. Dutton to create a Facebook post as soon as possible to
start advertising.
   D.   The Board addressed the Equal Right’s Amendment that was introduced at
the January Board meeting. As requested, Ms. Dutton had gathered and presented
more information about the amendment to the Board. Commissioner Wilson very
passionately encouraged the Board to entertain supporting the resolution.
Commissioner Chalflinch believed it to be a state decision. Mayor Pro-tem
stated that the amendment is politically loaded and he did not want to
entertain it at this time and Commissioner Phillips agreed. Commissioner Nance
also agreed, but stated that he wants to speak to the public more about the
amendment. By a majority, the Board decided not to entertain the Equal Rights
Amendment or supporting resolution at that time. 
   E.   Mr. Robinson summarized the findings from the interior inspection at
202 W. Barrett Street. The entire roof needs to be replaced. An order will be
sent to Mr. Charles Watson requesting that the entire roof be replaced.
XI   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton stated that the Planning Board made a positive
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners regarding the proposed Conditional
Zoning amendment. They also reviewed the Hillcrest Master Park Plan and new
sports complex site plan. They were also in favor of approving the variance
request for the gymnasium height.
   B.   The Carthage Historical Committee met on February 12, 2019. Ms. Dutton
is still waiting for the notes from the meeting before the Minutes can be
prepared.
   C.   The Carthage Appearance Committee met on Monday, February 11, 2019.
Sharon Chriscoe, from Possum Run, was present to help the Committee select
flowers for the planter’s downtown in the spring. They decided to use different
plants and flowers in the two different types of planters. Ashley Bibey will
work on getting the red bows complete for the 2019 Holiday season. They were
appreciative of the Public Works for all of their help with the Christmas
trees.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Commissioner Chalflinch mentioned a couple of street lights that were
out. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy thanked Public Works for doing such a great job paving
in areas around Town. Mayor McGraw asked everyone to please remember someone in
their life who has impacted you personally. He remembered a man named Dr. Eaton
from Wilmington whose father helped pave the way for civil rights, primarily in
the Wilmington area. He advised not to let the small numbers destroy what we
are all working for. Commissioner Phillips asked that everyone remember the
Veterans.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XIV.   XV. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the meeting was adjourned at 8:08 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 2, 2019 SPECIAL MEEETING
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEEETING
MARCH 2, 2019
8:00 A.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting Planning
Workshop on Saturday, March 2, 2019 at 8:00 a.m. in the Fire Department at the
Town Hall Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Jimmy Chalflinch and Christopher Nance.
Commissioner Marc Phillips a few minutes late, but a full board was in
attendance.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief
Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles, The purpose
of the meeting was to hold a budget workshop to discuss the state of the Town
and plans for the upcoming budget year.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 8:06 a.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the invocation.
III.   OVERVIEW: 
Mr. Robinson stated that the meeting was being held to discuss various topics
for the upcoming year and to discuss the current state of the Town.
IV.   STATE OF THE TOWN:
Mr. Robinson went over the State of the Town report. The Town’s population has
increased again this year. There will be no need to raise taxes this upcoming
year because the County is planning to do their revaluation, so our tax revenue
will more than likely increase on its own. The Town’s tax base and tax rates
fall in the middle of the other municipalities in the County. The abundant
rainfall has cost the Town a lot of money because of wastewater processing with
the County.
V.   BUDGET REPORT:
The Town has a $60,000 deficit this year. Most of this is because some of the
expenses rolled over to this year and also the cost of the wastewater
processing. A police car had to be replaced and there were some other one-time
expenses. Mayor McGraw asked if the County would provide the Town any relief on
wastewater processing expenses, but Mr. Robinson did not think that was a
possibility.
VI.   DEPARTMENT HEAD PRESENTATIONS:
Allen Smith, the Public Works Assistant Director spoke to the Board about the
current state of the Town’s infrastructure. The Town is currently investigating
areas where storm drains connect to the wastewater systems. There are several
manholes that need new liners and a few larger sized meters that need to be
replaced. There is a 10 foot line that was never repaired properly at the Rick
Rhyne Public Safety Building. Mayor McGraw suggested changing our leak
adjustment policy into more of a cost share program because the Town is losing
so much revenue. Mr. Robinson mentioned that we are close to having approval
from the state to recycle our own backwater at the plant. This will cost
approximately $120-150, 000, but we will gain sewer capacity for about 98
residential lots. Mr. Smith identified the most critical areas of sidewalks
that need repairs. Currently the Town patches the streets ourselves, but
repaving has to be done by a contractor. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that
sometimes the Town has a lot of lists for different types of projects, but it
seems nothing ever gets done.
   Police Chief Bart Davis spoke to the Board about the status of the Police
Department. There were two items that he spoke about. The first was an increase
of $2500 for contracted services. The Fleet Replacement Cycle is a large item,
but much needed. Five vehicles have been in service for five years and the two
administrative vehicles have been in use for seven years. Ms. Matthews
mentioned that Ford allows government financing that is structured for the same
payment for every year. Chief Davis said that taking the vehicles to auction
will still bring in a more significant amount of money back. Commissioner
Phillips suggested that the Town utilize the Galveston Cooperative Buying
Program that we are about of, to compare prices. Chief Davis said that
typically, the sheriff’s bid award program has been the best option and that
there are not grants available right now. Chief Davis then discussed the Nixle
Program and possibly upgrading to a paid program so as to have the text and
email capability.
   Fire Chief Brian Tyner addressed the Board next. His focus for the upcoming
year was to be able to cover staffing needs more consistently. He requested
having a few more firefighters available in the pool that could staff the
department. There was much discussion about why no one was willing to work on
the weekends, etc. Chief Tyner stated that many other departments in Moore
County pay more per hour worked than the Town. Mayor McGraw feels that those
who wish to serve as a firefighter should perhaps serve as volunteers as they
used to. The Board was presented with a list of items that the Fire Department
considers surplus. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board categorized the following items as surplus
and available for sell: 6 MSA Fire Hawk Masks, 4 MSA Fire Hawk M7 SCBA, 4 MSA
SCBA Bottles, and one Wisconsin Engine Generator 7.5 kW trailer mounted. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   Ms. Kathy Liles discussed the Needmore Grant with the Board. Joanna King has
been retained under a part time, temporary position to help with the
implementation and research that is needed to complete the required steps for
the grant. There was some discussion, but the Board agreed to hire Joanna
sooner than when the grant funding begins, because she has a lot to do to get
prepared. Ms. Liles discussed other ongoing projects and needs such as TARPO,
MCTP, a new Land Use Plan and UDO and also the need to start improving the
Buggy Building, as we are able.
VII.   CHALLENGES/ISSUES/OPPORTUNITIES: 
Tom Robinson mentioned that the sidewalk on McNeill Street has been inspected
by a forensic engineer. The engineer’s report indicates that the sidewalk
collapsed because of the retaining wall on Mr. Rick Yow’s property. The Town is
moving forward with the Code Violation and request to make repairs. Mr.
Robinson explained that the Town has received an offer for the property at 110
Old Glendon Rd. The offer was only $200. The Board agreed that the property’s
tax value of $2980, should be the minimum that is accepted for the property.
VIII.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Commissioner Phillips mentioned that March 27th is Legislative Day with the
TJCOG. The topic is water resources and he plans to attend.
IX.   ADJOURNEMENT:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the closing prayer. After a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Nance, Mayor McGraw adjourned
the meeting at 10:32 a.m. All in favor. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      _____________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MARCH 18, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 18, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, March 18, 2019 at 6:29 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners George
Wilson, Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch and Christopher Nance. A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance
Director Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Rich Smith, from the County of Moore, Dustin Smith and another concerned
citizen attended. Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot, was also present.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Mayor McGraw gave the invocation. The Mayor also reminded everyone that ten
years ago on March 29, 2009 was the tragedy at Pine Lake Nursing and
Rehabilitation Center. A gunman shot and killed eight individuals. He asked
everyone to keep the survivors and families of the victims in our thoughts.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes February 18, 2019
   B.   Board of Commissioners Special Workshop Minutes March 2, 2019
   C.   Updated Agenda as Presented
   D.   Budget Amendments #17
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:32 p.m.  Ms. Dutton described the
purpose of the public hearing was to review and approve the Revised System
Development Fees Support Analysis prepared by LKC Engineering. Commissioner
Phillips clarified that the fees can be used to support our future sewer line
construction. The Public Hearing was closed at 6:34 p.m. by Mayor McGraw. After
a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board of Commissioners approved the Revised System Development
Fees Support Analysis as Revised in January 2019. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reported on that the maintenance on the water tank was complete.
The tank would be refilled over the next week. The Town experienced some water
and sewer issues over the weekend when the main pump went out. When it started
back, the force broke a water main on Edgehill Parkway. Since then, a backup
pump has been installed and it shouldn’t happen again. David Chapman,
representing Little River called to let the Town know that they wouldn’t be
moving forward with those changes until fall 2019 or early 2020. The sewer flow
usage returned to the normal amount with the County. The Town is still
reviewing possibilities for an AMI system. The final meeting with MeterSys is
scheduled for April 1, 2019, but at this point the new sewer line takes
precedence. Caviness Park upgrades are almost complete. The pergolas and swings
are in place and the brick paver campaign has begun. The State approved the
processing of our back water that is used. That will save the Town
approximately $38,000 and create sewer capacity for up to 96 new homes. The
Town is finally able to apply for NCDOT funding for projects because we
approved the Bike and Pedestrian Plan. The sidewalks on Rockingham Street will
cost approximately $80,000. April 5, 2019 is the deadline to submit, if the
Board wishes to move forward. If the Town does not submit, we will not be put
on the list of priorities. It could still be between 5-7 years before the
project gets completed. Commissioner Chalflinch asked if the funding was
guaranteed and Ms. Liles explained that the Town should have a good idea
whether or not it will be funded in about six weeks after applying. Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy expressed frustration about always making lists of priorities and not
following through with anything. After more discussion and a suggestion by
Mayor McGraw, the Board decided to apply for NCDOT funding, but revisit the
topic in six months to see if there is any progress. Tom Robinson mentioned
that he had received an offer on 110 Old Glendon Road. The Board decided not to
accept but to counter offer $2500. Mayor Pro-tem Dowd asked if the smoking of
the water lines had been completed.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton and Ms. Liles introduced the Hillcrest Gymnasium site plan
to the Board of Commissioners. Rich Smith, the Capital Projects Manager for
Moore County was available to answer questions. The splash pad should be open
early June. The gym building will start late summer. Mayor Pro-tem asked how
many courts will be included. There will be two professional sized courts that
can be reduced as needed. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the site plan was approved for the Moore
County Hillcrest Park Sports Complex gymnasium. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   B.   Ms. Dutton explained the request to set a public hearing to discuss an
amendment that would allow a reduction in lot size if public utilities were
available. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board set the public hearing for April 15, 2019 to
discuss the possible dimensional requirements. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Ms. Dutton explained that there are several subdivisions in Carthage
that do not meet the minimum setback requirements for their zoning district. In
order to move forward and work towards greater compliance, Staff would like the
Board to consider an amendment that would reduce the side setback in R-10
zoning to ten feet. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded
by Commissioner Wilson, the Board set the public hearing for April 15, 2019 to
discuss the reduction of the side setbacks in the R-10 zoning district. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   D.   Ms. Kesha Matthews stated that the audit contract for the upcoming year
was ready for approval with S.S. Preston Douglas & Associates. Everyone was
pleased with their performance during the last year. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board
approved the audit contract with S.S. Preston Douglas & Associates. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton explained the need to update the fee schedule to reflect the
increased System Development Fees as well as adding some additional permit
types. For all of the types of applications and permits that require adjacent
property owners be notified, the Town’s application fee would increase to
$300.00 plus the cost of postage. This is still much less than some
municipalities in the area. A Mobile Food Truck Fee of $25 will be added, as
well as an Engineering fee, in case the Town needs to hire an outside source to
help review a project. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the amended Budget Ordinance and
Revised Fee Schedule as presented. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   B.   Tom Robinson stated that the Board of Commissioners had previously
reactivated the Southbury Subdivision in January 2019. Because of the nature of
the project, staff is requesting a more concrete motion so that the developer
can move forward.
   C.   Ms. Dutton mentioned to the Board that the proclamation that was
approved for Johnnie Ralph Holder, the Korean War hero last year, was being
referenced in an attempt to name a bridge after him. At that family’s request,
a letter had been written and signed by the Mayor to provide NCDOT a show of
support.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton stated that the Planning Board made a positive
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners regarding the site plan for the
Hillcrest gymnasium. They are working on reviewing the proposed amendments for
the reduction of dimensional requirements and setbacks. They are also reviewing
possible subdivision and permitting language.
   B.   The Carthage Historical Committee is still working on reorganizing the
Museum. They are also working on possible events as fundraisers.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Commissioner Nance asked if Joanna King had accepted the offer to work
at the Town and whether she had started yet. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Chalflinch and Commissioner Wilson thanked Town staff for all of
their hard work, with a special appreciation to the Public Utilities Department
for working so diligently over the weekend to restore water service.
   B.   Tom Robinson mentioned that Town Staff will be accepting an award for
the Carthage Buggy Festival at the County Commissioners Meeting, March 19,
2019. He also mentioned that the funding of repairs on Edgehill Parkway is
funding through the Town already.
   C.   The Board discussed possibly placing an ad in memory of the tragedy at
Pine Lake Nursing and Rehab Center.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Chalflinch gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XIV.   XV. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton
Dowdy, the meeting was adjourned at 7:26 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
APRIL 15, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 15, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, April 15, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Marc
Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch and Christopher Nance. A quorum. Commissioner George
Wilson was absent from the meeting.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance
Director Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Pamela Partis with Vision 4 Moore, Farrah Pulliam with Habitat for Humanity,
Dustin Smith and Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot, were also present.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes March 18, 2019
   B.   Updated Agenda as Requested
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Pamela Partis addressed the Board to tell them about the Summer Concert Series
taking place at Cooper Ford this summer. Each concert will raise proceeds for a
different local charity including Teen Challenge, Moore Buddies and a local
free health clinic. She also wanted to remind the Board about the free service
through the Pilot. The service helps people post missing animals and has a high
success rate so far.
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:35 p.m.  Ms. Dutton
described the purpose of the public hearing was to review and discuss the
proposed text amendment that would reduce the side setback in the R-10 to ten
feet. The purpose is to increase conformity between existing and new
subdivisions that are zoned R-10. Public Hearing was closed at 6:38 p.m. by
Mayor McGraw. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency was
approved with regard to the reduction of side setbacks in the R-10 zoning
district. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance
and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board approved the text amendment
reducing the side setbacks to ten feet in the R-10 zoning district. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   B.   The public hearing to discuss the possible reduction of dimensional
requirements in the RA-40 when public water and sewer are used was tabled in
order to work with the Planning Board further.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reported on the sidewalk on S. McNeill Street. Roland Gilliam was
asked by Rick Yow to make the repairs to the retaining wall, fence and
sidewalk. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board set a special meeting for May 20, 2019 at 5:
30 pm in the McDonald Building to discuss the proposed budget. All ayes. Motion
carried. The counter offer for 110 Old Glendon Road has not been accepted at
this time. Tom Robinson will reach back out to the interested party. Town staff
is still working with MeterSys to develop a plan to install and use AMI
technology. Mr. Robinson believes that the study will be complete by the next
meeting. Town staff met with Lynn from USDA to start the application process
for the sewer project. The Board has a resolution to consider later that would
make Tom Robinson the primary point of contact for the process. Mr. Robinson
asked the Board to think about hosting a series of concerts or outdoor events
during the summer. Mr. Robinson announced that Kesha Matthews has discovered a
way for the Town to earn more interest by using the NC Cash Management Trust
instead of a regular deposit account. So far, other municipalities have had
great success using this feature. Mr. Robinson mentioned that Ms. Dutton had
obtained her Certified Zoning Official designation.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board set the public hearing for the Permitting section text
amendment for May 20, 2019. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board set the
public hearing date to discuss the Subdivision section text amendment for the
May 20, 2019 meeting. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board appointed the Town Manager, Tom Robinson as the
primary point of contact for the USDA sewer project.
   C.   Fire Chief Brian Tyner explained that the Carthage Fire Department had
been offered a ladder truck by the Forestry Service. This type of truck is very
expensive and appears to be in good condition. The truck will be examined by a
specialty mechanic before Carthage officially takes possession of the truck,
but a ladder truck could definitely be used. The vehicles offered by the
Forestry Service do not have to be returned. In two years’ time, they can be
sold or donated. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved for the Town of Carthage Fire
Department to accept the ladder truck being donated by the US Forestry service
provided it is in good condition, once it is examined by a mechanic. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   D.   Greenhaven Nursery and Landscaping has provided a quote for the
landscaping to be done at the Town Hall building. The estimate was for $5500.00
and it will make the building so much better once it is complete.
   E.   Ms. Dutton provided information about filing for positions in the
upcoming election.
   F.   Tom Robinson explained the status of the Pine Tree Estates subdivision.
The plat was approved previously and based on the Development Ordinance, the
plat can be renewed and the process can move forward. Mr. Ron Jackson will go
ahead and develop the road all the way through the phases. In addition, the
water service will loop through to the other side. Mayor McGraw asked Police
Chief Davis about reducing the speed limit there on McNeill to 35mph to allow
the resident’s to pull out of their driveways. After a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the
renewal of the Pine Tree Estates subdivision. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton updated the Board on the status of the brick paver campaign.
So far, a total of eleven bricks have been sold and people seem enthusiastic
about the project. The fundraiser will be accessible during the Carthage Buggy
Festival.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Ms. Dutton stated that the Planning Board made a positive
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners regarding the reduced side
setbacks in the R-10 zoning district. However, the Planning Board gave the
recommendation that the Board of Commissioners not approve the text amendment
for the dimensional reduction when public utilities are used. They stated that
the Town is in need of a new Land Use Plan and they wouldn’t feel comfortable
increasing density in areas until a new plan was in place.
   B.   Ms. Dutton shared some information about the Carthage Buggy Festival
that is scheduled for May 11, 2019. Commissioner Phillips asked if people are
saying anything in particular about the beer and wine vendors and the allowance
of dogs to the festival. Ms. Dutton explained that most of the comments are
very positive.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Commissioner Chalflinch said that the LED sign looks great and wanted
to know if the Town was going to charge a fee and allow businesses to
advertise. Mr. Robinson stated that the Town would have to develop a policy to
handle those issues. Commissioner Phillips said that Caviness Park and the new
sign look good. Commissioner Nance said that the sign looks good, as well as
the Buggy Festival brochure. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked Ms. Dutton about whether
enough golf carts would be available during the festival. Public Works
Director, Kevin Kimball asked the Board if the Crepe Myrtles could be removed
from the McDonald Building lawn. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips,
the Board approved the removal of the crepe myrtles. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XIV.   XV. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:32 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 20, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 20, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, May 20, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Marc
Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch, George Wilson and Christopher Nance. A full board.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance
Director Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Farrah Pulliam and Amy Fraley with Habitat for Humanity, Bill Lester and Mark
Lacey from LKC Engineering, Debra Ensminger from Moore County, Andy Honeycutt
and Lisa Nguyen from MeterSys, Dustin Smith, Lee Edmonds and Jaymie Baxley from
the Pilot, were also present.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.
I.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the invocation.
II.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Wilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Lee Edmonds addressed the Board with regard to the condition of the Nancy Kiser
Park. He attended a meeting with the Town about a year ago and addressed some
concerns about the park appearance and overall condition. At that time, Mr.
Edmonds was told that the park would be attended to, but he recently visited
and took some new pictures of the park. Some of his concerns are broken lights
and poor overall lighting, no fencing around playground or holes in the fence,
a hole right by the park sign and grass growing all in the tennis court area.
Mr. Robinson agreed that the park has not been a high priority, but staff will
revisit the area and really start making improvements as soon as possible. Mr.
Edmonds passed pictures to the Board for inspection.
IV.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes April 15, 2019
   B.   Budget Amendments # 19, #20, #21, #22
   C.   Updated agenda as presented at the meeting
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VIII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.    Mayor McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:43 p.m. Kathy Liles
described the proposed permitting ordinance amendment. The rezoning section and
subdivision section were removed from this section. The ordinance amendment
describes was requires a permit, who can apply for the permit, information
about expiration of permits, the appeal process and major and minor
modifications. No one from the public or Board had questions. The public
hearing was closed at 6:49 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips
and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the Resolution in
Support of the Land Use Consistency Statement as it pertains to the Permitting
Ordinance Amendment. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved
the Permitting ordinance amendment as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Mayor McGraw opened the next public hearing at 6:50 p.m. to discuss the
proposed Subdivision ordinance amendments. Ms. Liles explained that the
proposed ordinance has several changes and additions including two new
definitions: flag lot and building envelope. There are a couple of new exempt
subdivision types being added, as well as an expedited review process. There is
a new process for subdivision approval and a new requirement for soil reports.
An expiration date of two years was added to the ordinance with no waivers or
extensions allowed. The ordinance also provides design standards, curb and
gutter guidelines as well as guidelines for sidewalks and a list of regulatory
agencies to contact during the process. The Planning Board recommended a 5%
open space requirement and is requesting that it be more centrally located
within the larger tract, not just on the outskirts of the parcel. There is also
an option for the developer to make a payment to the Town in lieu of open
space. Cluster mailboxes are required by the Postal Service now. There is a
checklist included in the ordinance to make the process easier for applicants
and staff. There were no comments or questions regarding the ordinance. The
public hearing was closed at 7:06 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner
Nance and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the
Resolution in Support of the Land Use Consistency Statement as it pertains to
the proposed Subdivision ordinance. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board
approved the subdivision ordinance as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson reported that the Carthage Buggy Festival was a big success and
the addition of the beer and wine and dogs were very well received. Mr.
Robinson revisited the Union Hills Subdivision. The Town was not able to annex
the property because it would have changed the Fire District for the area.
Because they were willing to annex and because the Town could use more water
customers in that area, he would like to offer in-town water rates to the
subdivision. The Board unanimously agreed. After working with Roland Gilliam
and attorney Kent Smith, the property at 109 S. McNeill Street is being
repaired. Mr. Gilliam will remove the wall and building debris, grade the
property and backfill. The Town will replace the sidewalk. The new ladder fire
engine will be evaluated on June 23, 2019. There are two different parties
interested in the Little River area. Both projects would be great for the Town.
Vision4Moore is still hosting the concerts at Cooper Ford this summer. The
proceeds are being donated to different civic, non-profits in the area. The
Town of Carthage Historical Committee is hosting a series of concerts at Nancy
Kiser Park during the summer, too.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   Debra Ensminger from Moore County Planning and Transportation addressed
the Board about the Highway Corridor Overlay Districts. The County wants the
input of the municipalities with regard to the design and types of businesses
they would like to have along the corridors near the respective municipality.
The County would like the Town to develop a list of visions, goals and
objectives to share with the County at their upcoming meetings. Mayor McGraw
suggested that Ms. Dutton post information on Facebook to gather input from the
public.
   B.   Mr. Andy Honeycutt from MeterSys presented information to the Board of
Commissioners regarding the Automatic Meter Infrastructure study that was done.
Overall, cellular is the best option for the Town because it requires less
infrastructure required. There would still be a fee f approximately $5,000 to
integrate with Southern Software. Mr. Robinson recommends financing for ten
years instead of fifteen or twenty. The batteries are guaranteed for ten years
completely and then there is a ten year, pro-rated amount of coverage based on
the age of the battery. The AMI meter is guaranteed for twenty years. Candor,
Mt. Gilead and Kenansville have all switched to AMI over the last few years and
hired MeterSys to help with that transition. Mr. Robinson suggested that staff
visit these communities to gain some insight about the transition and any
challenges they might have had.
   C.   Mr. Robinson spoke to the Board about the County’s request to close a
portion of Dowd Street so that the new courthouse can be built the size that is
needed for them to be most efficient. The County wants to build a landscaped
mezzanine between the courthouse and Register of Deeds. Mayor McGraw believes
firmly that if that portion of the street is closed to automobile traffic,
NCDOT will move forward with the bypass sooner to alleviate the traffic issues.
Mayor Pro-tem said that it seems that when there are two sides working
together, and only one side reaps any benefit, it is not a helpful
relationship. He believes that the County is only looking out for their own
convenience. The Board was not able to have a consensus and asked for
representatives from the County Board of Commissioners attend the next meeting
for further discussion.
   D.   After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board approved the Resolution of Appreciation to honor Jean
Riley. All ayes. Motion carried.
   E.   Earlier in May, the Board was asked via email for their approval to
move forward in opposition to several proposed state laws. The County prepared
a Resolution and presented it on behalf of the County and the Municipalities
that participated. Now there is an official Resolution to sign that will be
forwarded on to the County for their records. After a motion made by Commission
Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton, the Board approved the Resolution
in Opposition of Legislative Bills by majority. Commissioner Phillips voted
against the Resolution, all others were ayes. Motion carried.
   F.   Amy Fraley and Farah Pulliam addressed the Board about some programs
that Habitat for Humanity are working on. Habitat is planning on working with
Pinckney Academy to teach some of these students’ construction skills that will
not only give them high school credit, but possibly some credit towards a
college degree. This program might help shed a more positive light on students
from the Pinckney Academy. Part of this program would be to build new
affordable housing in Carthage. There are three lots in Carthage that the Town
owns that are being considered for donation or purchase with Habitat. The next
program is a repair program for existing homes that might be small projects
completed. Some projects might include building a ramp, pressure washing or
trimming hedges. Hopefully, about twenty homes will receive some sort of
facelift. The Board of Commissioners asked that staff research the donation
process and also compile the information on each property so that they can make
a decision in June.
   G.   Bill Lester from LKC Engineering spoke to the Board briefly about the
contract to build the wastewater recycling area for the Town. The Town received
several proposals, but Mr. Lester recommends selecting the lowest bidder. After
a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch,
the Board awarded the construction contract to McFadden Homes and Construction.
All ayes. Motion carried.
   H.   Ms. Dutton described the Conditional Use Permit request and application
that has been received. The application is for multifamily dwellings, as an
apartment complex on a parcel identified as LRK# 00003216. The lot is located
at the intersection of Pinehurst Avenue and S. McNeill Street. The Conditional
Use Permit process is quasi-judicial and would be heard by the Board of
Adjustment. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board of Commissioners set a Public Hearing and Board of
Adjustment meeting for June 17, 2019 during the next Regular Board meeting. All
ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.   Mr. Robinson recommended to the Board of Commissioners to reactivate
the    preliminary plat for the second phase of Savannah’s Garden. Only the
first section of Phase 2    can move forward with construction drawings for
now. After the initial section, the Town    will expect the developer to move
forward with connecting this subdivision to both Pine Tree    Estates and the
first phase of Savannah’s Garden. Town staff will also determine the more
   appropriate time to accept the open space area for community recreation.
After a motion    made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board approved    the reactivation of the preliminary plat for
Savannah’s Garden Phase 2 and the ability to    move forward with the first
section of Phase 2. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Brandon Emory with Alliance Code Enforcement presented his report that
was supposed to be included with the Manager’s Report section. During the past
month, ACE has opened six new cases and abated eight. The property at 202 W.
Barrett Street is making    progress with repairs and the owner has retained an
engineer to help plan the repairs. A property on Davis Street is in need of
demolition. Mr. Emory stated that he    has often worked with property owners
who are in violation, to sell their property to Habitat for Humanity. This
situation would be ideal for many of the properties in Carthage.
   B.    Ms. Dutton stated that the Planning Board made a positive
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners regarding the Permitting Ordinance
and Subdivision Ordinance.
   C.   The Carthage Historical Committee is still working with the volunteer
from NC State University to straighten out their collections and archives.
Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot is willing to help them make digital copies of the
old newspapers. The Committee decided to update their trivia game for the Buggy
Festival.
XI.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Phillips thanked the Police Department and Fire Department for
their contributions during the DAV car show, it was a big success. Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy thanked the Buggy Festival Committee and Town staff for a great
festival. He was nervous about the dogs being in attendance and also about the
possibility of people drinking too much during the festival, but it was a great
success. Mayor McGraw also congratulated staff on a great festival.
Commissioner Chalflinch expressed thanks to the Town staff for all of their
time, not just at the festival. And Commissioner Wilson agreed that the
festival was great and that he enjoyed the CityVision Conference in Hickory.
XII.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Nance gave the closing prayer.
XIII.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XIV.   XV. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton
Dowdy, the Board meeting was adjourned at 8:58 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 20, 2019 (SPECIAL MEEETING)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEEETING
MAY 20, 2019
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Budget Meeting on
May 20, 2019 at 5:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr.,
Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Jimmy Chalflinch, Marc Phillips and
Christopher Nance. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief
Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Brandon Emory, with Alliance Code
Enforcement was present. Town Planner Kathy Liles, arrived a few minutes late.
The purpose of the meeting was to hold a budget workshop to discuss the state
of the Town’s finances and the possibilities for the upcoming budget year.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:28 p.m.
II.   BUDGET REPORT:
Mr. Robinson asked if everyone had been able to ready through his memo that was
included with the proposed budget paperwork. Mr. Robinson had hoped that the
surplus in the budget from last year would carry us through this year, but the
budget is essentially $31,000 shorter than where it needs to be. If the Board
raised the tax rate one cent (.01), things would be much easier. Several things
this year contributed to the difficult situation that the Town is in. One of
the companies that was renting space on the cellular tower in town will no
longer be using the tower because the contract expired. That alone was a loss
of $29,000 of revenue. Because of all of the rain this past year, our
wastewater treatment through the County has increased. The Town also settled
the impact fee lawsuit during the past fiscal year. The Town also made many
improvements including the new LED sign, new trashcans and dog waste stations
and the landscaping at Caviness Park. This year the Town will break even with
water and will have an $114,000 deficit in sewer.
III.   PRIORITIES AND PLANS:
As part of the budget report, Mr. Robinson listed many of the planned capital
fund increases including a 2% COLA for employees, half of a land use plan,
employee health insurance coverage, an emergency notification program, sidewalk
improvements with NCDOT, and the payment for the new fire truck. Many of these
expenses are to continue the initiatives that the Town already has in place
like an improved Downtown area, increased sewer capacity, repairing and
repaving streets as needed, maintaining a quality workforce and working with
the County and other organizations to improve the facilities and programs in
Carthage.
IV.   CHALLENGES: 
Mr. Robinson suggested that a tax rate increase of one cent (.01) would help
balance out the proposed capital fund increases so that a lesser amount would
have to come from Fund Balance. The proposed tax increase would equal
approximately $24,000. If the tax rate does not increase this year, our budget
will be tight, and next year, the tax rate will definitely have to be
increased.
V.   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS:
Several Commissioners were concerned about the possible tax increase. They
discussed the County’s revaluation and the possible fire tax rate increase that
might help bridge the gap for the Town. Mr. Robinson asked the Commissioners to
look over the lists that were provided and try to decide which programs or
plans to reduce or postpone to another year. Commissioner Phillips asked if the
pay study could wait. Mayor McGraw asked the Board to consider removing the 2%
COLA raises and the pay study. He also asked if there were other ways to cut
the insurance cost. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy asked about the debt service
payment for the fire truck and also stated that cutting the benefits or COLA
raises for employees would not be at the top of his list. The Mayor Pro-tem
also said that citizens are often times better adjusted to tax rate changes
when the improvements can be seen around Town. Commissioner Phillips suggested
that they consider increasing the tax rate by one-half-cent and taking the
balance out of fun balance. The Board agreed to continue thinking about options
to not increase the tax rate. The Board set a Special Budget Meeting for
Tuesday, May 28, 2019 at 5:30 p.m. in the McDonald Building. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded Commissioner Wilson, the Board set
the public hearing to consider and adopt the proposed FY2019-2020 Budget for
the next regular meeting on June 17, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
VI.   ADJOURNMENT:
The Special Budget meeting was called to a close at 6:28 p.m. in preparation of
the Regular meeting scheduled for 6:30 p.m.
 
_______________________________      _____________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
MAY 28, 2019 (SPECIAL MEEETING)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEEETING
MAY 28, 2019
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting on May 28,
2019 at 5:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. Present were Mayor Lee McGraw,
Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Jr., Commissioners George H. Wilson, Jr., Jimmy
Chalflinch, Marc Phillips and Christopher Nance. A full board.
Also present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Kevin Kimball, Police Chief
Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Dolores Bonillo attended the meeting.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the proposed FY19-20 Budget and also
the site proposed to host the new County courthouse.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:28 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION AND PLEDGE: 
Commissioner Phillips gave the opening prayer. Commissioner Wilson gave the
Pledge of Allegiance.
III.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
IV.   COURTHOUSE DISCUSSION:
Mayor McGraw asked if there was anything new to discuss since the last Board
meeting. And the Mayor also stated that he would’ve hated if the Board voted at
the last meeting without more careful consideration. Mr. Robinson confirmed
that he had met with the County Manager to discuss the project. Mr. Vest
suggests that the two Boards meet together with the architect for the building
to discuss and help resolve the placement of the proposed courthouse. Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy asked again about the property behind the Rick Rhyne Public
Safety Center. He said that originally, he thought the plan was to build the
new facility there and now the County is changing their minds because it is
inconvenient for them. Mr. Robinson showed the Board a map of the proposed area
and also mentioned that a new road could be constructed through the Rick Rhyne
building parking area to help alleviate some of the stress the road closure
would cause. Mayor McGraw urged the Board to think about the downtown area
would look like with the proposed courthouse. He said that the by-way project
might proceed sooner than expected. If the Town is going to give up a major
thoroughfare road, there needs to be a benefit to the Town. Dolores Bonillo, an
employee at the Register of Deeds asked about the parking lot behind the
Register of Deeds office. She said that several of the ladies in her office
were curious about the project.
V.   BUDGET DISCUSSION:
Several Commissioners were concerned about the possible tax increase. If the
Commissioners approve everything in the proposed budget, the Town will have a
deficit of $31,000 that will have to be appropriated from the general fund.
Also, Mr. Wayne Vest confirmed that he will not be seeking a fire tax increase
in the County which will make the Town’s deficit ever greater. This upcoming
fiscal year is especially difficult because of the debt service payment for the
new fire truck, the loss of revenue from an existing cellular tower and the
expense of processing the wastewater with the County because of the abundance
of rain. Mr. Robinson previously had emailed a checklist of items to be
considered. Mr. Robinson read through the list of items to include: a new Land
Use Plan, Downtown Improvements, Hotel Feasibility Study, Nixle or Emergency
communication program, a new pay plan study, financial software, Cost of Living
raises, firefighters pay increase and the part time, temporary grass mowing
position. The Board used the list to start discussions on each item.
Commissioner Phillips believes the hotel feasibility study should be done in
this area, but thinks it is the responsibility of the developer. There was
discussions back and forth and finally the majority of the Board agreed to
include the $3250 match with the Century Committee to have the feasibility
study completed.
   Mr. Robinson mentioned the need for an updated Land Use Plan for the Town.
The active plan was written in 1999 and is very outdated. The Planning Board is
hesitant to make changes to the zoning ordinances without having a new vision
or plan for the Town. After some deliberation, the Board agreed to postpone the
Land Use Plan until next year. Mr. Robinson asked if the Town could remain in
the que with the Council of Governments to have it completed next year and the
Board agreed.
   The previous pay plan study was completed about four years ago and it is the
Town Manager has recommended that the Town begin the process of a new study in
the next year to be implemented in 2021. The purpose would be to ensure that
our salaries are competitive and the Town would be able to retain its staff.
After further discussion, the majority of the Board agreed to remove the pay
plan study from this year’s budget. The Town Manager mentioned that there he
will be working on an incentive program to implement for staff. In addition,
because of delaying the pay plan study, the Board unanimously agreed to approve
the 2% cost of living raises for all staff.
   For years the Town has been struggling to revitalize the downtown area of
Carthage. The Greenberg study that was done provided some good, generic ideas
for how to get business moving, but without a champion volunteer, there is no
one to spearhead the efforts. The proposed budget set aside $10,000 for
downtown improvements. After some discussion about the amount of money to set
aside, the Board agreed to allocate $5,000 towards downtown development.
   Police Chief Bart Davis addressed the Board and explained the request for
Nixle or another emergency communication program. The Town has been using the
free version, but the program changed and now it only uses email communication,
not cellular alerts. Mr. Robinson and the Board agreed that this service could
be instrumental in saving lives and that this type of technology would be most
helpful. There is a one-time set up fee of $5000 and then the yearly fee after
would be $4500. The Board agreed to leave the item in the proposed budget.
   Ms. Matthews explained to the Board about the future state requirement for
financial reporting software. Because Ms. Matthews will be completing the
reports herself, it would be in the Town’s best interest to move forward and
obtain the software this coming year to gain more experience. CAFR Online
(Comprehensive Annual Financial Reporting) is one available program. There are
others, but the estimated cost is approximately $5500 to begin and a fee of
$500 a year. The Board all agreed to keep the software expense in the budget.
   Fire Chief Tyner addressed the Board about the firefighter’s salaries.
Carthage firefighters have been paid below the local average. In an effort to
raise the pay to $11.00 an hour, Town staff is proposing to increase their pay
.91 cents this year and .91 cents next fiscal year. There is a discrepancy in
how much funding the Carthage FD needs this year and what the Fire Commission
will actually be providing because of when the new equipment was received and
the fire tax rate not increasing this year. Because of the proposed budget
indicating a shortage on funding, the Commissioners unanimously approved a pay
increase of 50 cents an hour this fiscal year. By compromising, the Board is
hopeful the firefighters will still feel appreciated.
   After reviewing all the items that were removed from the budget, unless the
tax rate increased, a significant portion of fund balance would have to be used
to balance the budget. The Commissioners discussed increasing the tax rate by
one-half-cent as a way to lessen the expense out of fund balance. After further
discussion, the majority of the Board was in agreement to increase the tax rate
by one cent for the upcoming budget year.
   Ms. Dutton reviewed the proposed fee schedule changes to the Board. Mayor
McGraw asked staff to speak with our waste collection contractor, Republic
Services, about changing our collection day to the middle of the week. This
will reduce the impact of trash cans being left out over the weekend or on
Mondays when businesses might be closed.
VI.   ADJOURNMENT:
The Special Budget meeting was called to a close at 7:50 p.m. after a motion
made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All
ayes. Motion carried.
 
_______________________________      _____________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 17, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 17, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, June 17, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Commissioners Marc Phillips, Jimmy Chalflinch and George Wilson.
Commissioner Christopher Nance arrived late and a quorum was present.
Commissioner Phillips presided over the meeting.
Town staff present were Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Public Services Director
Kevin Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance Director Kesha Matthews, Fire
Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Police Officers present were
Joshua McKenzie, Zachary Prevatte and Daniel Lucas. Farrah Pulliam and Amy
Fraley with Habitat for Humanity were in attendance, Jaymie Baxley from the
Pilot, Billy Guillet, John Nash and Johnny Smith. Many Town residents were
present to discuss the proposed Conditional Use permit.
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Commissioner Phillips called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV.   COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Commissioner Phillips asked those comments regarding the Conditional Use Permit
to wait until the BOA hearing is opened. Chief Davis introduced the police
officers that were in attendance and gave a brief biography for each of
   them.
V.   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner    Wilson. All ayes. Motion carried.
   A.   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes May 20, 2019
   B.   Board of Commissioners Special Meeting Minutes May 20, 2019
   C.   Board of Commissioners Special Meeting Minutes May 28, 2019
   D.   Budget Amendments #23, #24-#25
   E.   Updated agenda as presented
VI.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VII.   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Commissioner Phillips opened the budget public hearing at 6:35 p.m. Ms.
Dutton explained that all of the changes that were proposed at the last Special
Budget meeting were implemented into this proposed final version of the FY19-20
Budget. A one-cent tax increase is proposed in order to keep from using so much
of the fund balance. The expense of processing wastewater was greater than
expected because of all the rain that we had last fall. The priorities that
were selected have been included in the budget. The Board is asked to vote on
adopting the proposed budget during the “New Business,” portion of the meeting.
Commissioner Phillips closed the public hearing at 6:39 p.m.
VIII.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT HEARING: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Regular Board meeting was recessed and the Board of Adjustment Meeting was
opened at 6:40 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded
by Commissioner Nance, the Regular meeting was reopened at 7:00 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
IX.   TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
The Regular meeting was reopened my Commissioner Phillips. Ms. Dutton
summarized the Town Manager’s report. The department reports are included with
the Manager’s Report along with the report from Alliance Code Enforcement.
There were two properties that were mentioned at the last Board meeting, 203
Needmore Road and 606 Pinecrest Street that are now open cases. The Town has
been working with Ron Jackson to help identify possible recreation sites within
Savannah’s Garden Phase 2. A representative from the state will be visiting to
do a site visit and also help with gaining There are two trails from the
approved Bike and Pedestrian Plan that Mr. Robinson would like for the Board to
review again and designate one of them a priority. Commissioner Phillips
believes that the trail from the Greentree Apartments on Saunders Street down
to the Health Department would be used more often. Ms. Liles explained that
that the Saunders Street trail might be easier to develop because there will be
less easements required. The trail from Nancy Kiser Park to the Airport area
would require many easements. The Board concurred that the Saunders Street
trail would be a great starting point.
X.   NEW BUSINESS:
   A.   After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the proposed FY 2019-2020 Budget and
Budget Ordinance as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   B.   Ms. Dutton, Ms. Liles and Amy Fraley described the proposed Habitat for
Humanity Project. This project would allow the older students at Pinckney
Academy the opportunity to get high school credits, college technical credits
and credentials. A new curriculum will be developed for this program with the
hopes that it will be a pilot program in the area. The program is a great way
to give back to the community, help an underprivileged group of youth and also
receive some positive publicity. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioners Chalflinch and Wilson in unison, the Board approved
the resolution in support of the donation of property for affordable housing
and the transfer of the property at 103 Old Glendon Road to Habitat for
Humanity. All ayes. Motion carried.
   C.   Ms. Dutton explained that several committee and Board appointment terms
are expiring this month. With the exception of Bonnie Brown, everyone is
seeking reappointment. After a motion by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, Bob Hunt was reappointed to a new term to expire June 2022.
All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, Tom Prim and Rebecca Prim were reappointed
to the Appearance Committee for a new term to expire June 2022. All ayes.
Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board reappointed Connie Marion and Dora Anne Maness
to the Historical Committee for a new term to expire June 2022. All ayes.
Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, Connie Marion was reappointed to the Historical
Preservation Commission for a new term to expire June 2023. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   D.   Ms. Dutton mentioned that the County sent a new proposed contract for
inspection services that includes everything except and kind of minimum housing
or condemnation. After reviewing the proposed contract, Tom Robinson contacted
Mr. Wayne Vest to let him know that the Town would not sign the contract as it
was submitted. The building code requires a certain level of participation in
the condemnation process. The most recent message that the Town received back
from the County was that the contract is being rewritten so that the County
will not incur any costs nor will they participate in any minimum housing
inspections under any circumstances. The new contract will be redistributed to
the municipalities once it is ready.
   E.   Ms. Dutton and Ms. Liles discussed the proposed Downtown Development
committee. Ms. Dutton stated that the Board asked for it to be a priority for
this next year and at this time, Staff needs guidance of how to structure the
committee. Ms. Liles suggested to set up the new committee like a steering
committee and eventually they might separate from the Town to be a standalone
organization. Ms. Dutton has received interest back from: Chris Sweet, Kaye
Badgett, Dennis Cyphers, David Foxx and Debbie and Walt Marcinkiewicz. The
Board suggested that Staff reach out to members of the Century Committee to try
to have a member be a part of this steering committee. The Board of
Commissioners agreed in setting the Downtown Development Committee like an
advisory or steering committee. Commissioner Wilson said that he was pleased
with those who were interested in serving. Ms. Dutton said that Staff would
start trying to schedule a first meeting and work on developing a mission
statement for the committee.
XI.   OLD BUSINESS:
   A.    Kathy Liles summarized the progress report for the Needmore Grant.
Everything is moving along as planned. Town and County staff have planned a
helmet rodeo for the Needmore Community. Bicycle helmets will be    given away,
police officers will be onsite to talk about bicycle safety and the health
department will be present to talk about healthy diets and portion size. The
event is planned for July 16, 2019 at the County Agricultural Center. Ms.
Dutton will add the information to the LED sign, Facebook and make a flyer to
include with the newsletters.
XII.   COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton explained that there are no committee reports at this time.
XIII.   ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS: 
None
XIV.   CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Nance gave the closing prayer.
XV.   CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XVI.   REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Commissioner    Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Wilson, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:24    p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JUNE 17, 2019 (BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
JUNE 17, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Adjustment held a meeting on Monday, June 17,
2019 at the McDonald Building, during the Regular Board of Commissioners
meeting.
Present were Marc Phillips, George H. Wilson, Jr., Jimmy Chalflinch and
Christopher Nance. A quorum. Lee McGraw was excused from the meeting, as he was
out of town and Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy was in the hospital.
Others present were Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Public Works Director Kevin
Kimball, Police Chief Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Several members of
the community were present, including Kim Livengood, Lee Livengood, Johnny
Smith, Rhonda and Mike Howell and Tom Daniel.
The purpose of the meeting was to consider a conditional use permit to build
multi-family housing on a parcel of land at the corner of Pinehurst Avenue and
South McNeill Street.
I.   Call to Order:
The regular meeting was recessed and the Board of Adjustment was called to
order at 6:40 p.m. by Commissioner Phillips, who was presiding over the
meeting.
II.   New Business:  
Commissioner Phillips asked everyone who would be speaking to come to the
center to be sworn in. As everyone approached, Ms. Kimberly Livengood said that
she was unsure about continuing the hearing because of the Mayor and Mayor Pro-
tem being absent from the meeting. There was much discussion and questions
being tossed out. Ms. Liles said that before anything further, everyone should
be sworn in. Members from the public disregarded and kept asking questions.
Finally, Commissioner Phillips asked everyone to stop talking. Ms. Liles asked
William Guillet if he would be amenable to discussing the project in the other
room with the public. He agreed and recommended that the hearing be postponed
until the next meeting in July. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch
and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board recessed the Board of Adjustment
hearing and will resume the meeting at the next regular meeting on July 15,
2019 and closed the Board of Adjustment meeting. All ayes. Motion carried. All
of the interested parties exited the Board room and proceeded across the
hallway to the other side.
III.
   After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner
Nance, the Board reopened the Regular Meeting at 7:00 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________       ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk             Lee McGraw, Chairman
JULY 15, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 15, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, July 15, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Commissioner Marc Phillips, Commissioner Christopher
Nance and Commissioner George Wilson. Commissioner Jimmy Chalflinch was out of
town and Mayor Pro-tem was available by telephone.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Allen Smith, Police Chief Bart Davis, Finance Director
Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Dustin
Smith, Dan and Dolores Bonillo, Johnny Smith, Kaye Badgett and Jaymie Baxley
from the Pilot were present. Many Town residents were present to discuss the
proposed Conditional Use permit including Kimberly Livengood, Rhonda and Mike
Howell, Harry and Debra Powell and Tom Daniels.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Wilson gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Phillips led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson.    All ayes. Motion carried.
   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes June 17, 2019
   Board of Adjustment Minutes June 17, 2019
VI. PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None        
VIII. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT HEARING: 
McGraw opened the Board of Adjustment meeting at 6:41pm and explained the
quasi-judicial process to the Board and audience. The quasi-judicial hearing
was concluded at 9:05 p.m. and the Regular meeting was    continued.
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
The Regular meeting was reopened my Mayor McGraw. Tom Robinson summarized the
Town Manager’s report. The department reports are included with the Manager’s
Report along with the report from Alliance Code Enforcement. The Police Chief
and Ms. Dutton have been reviewing emergency notification system information
from CodeRED and feel like it would be the best fit for Carthage and it is half
the price. The Savannah Garden meeting was a success despite the rain and
storms. With the Boards approval, Town staff will begin coordinating with Ron
Jackson to secure the strip of property parallel to Roberts Place for community
recreation area. A representative from the state parks programs will be
visiting Carthage on August 7, 2019 to assess each location.    Mr. Robinson
reported that the power pole on the sidewalk on McNeill Street has been
relocated, but it appears there are still phone lines connected to the pole.
Mr. Gilliam has to have his plans certified before he can move forward with the
repairs. Allen Smith has been promoted to Director of Public Services. Town
staff has been meeting with possible Little River developers. One developer is
working with a national homebuilder and hopes to eventually build 1200-1400
housing units at Little River, including single-family dwellings and townhomes.
Code Enforcement is moving along smoothly, with several hearings scheduled and
a lot of cases abated already.
X. NEW BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton described a rezoning request for three parcels owned by John
Caddell’s Estate, under the care of Johnsie Riddle. These parcels were
originally part of the Caddell mobile home park, but at some point were rezoned
to R-20. Because Manufactured homes are considered a non-conformity, the use is
not allowed after a certain period of time. Johnsie Riddle has applied to
rezone those lots back to RMH, in order to continue the use. There is already
one home on the lot currently. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the Board set the public hearing to consider
the rezoning for the next Regular meeting on August 19, 2019. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Ms. Dutton introduced Kaye Badgett to the Board. Ms. Badgett is interested in
serving on the Appearance Committee. She has already attended one meeting and
has some great ideas. The Appearance Committee unanimously recommended that the
Board appoint her. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips, the Board appointed Kaye Badgett to the Appearance
Committee for a term of three years to expire in June 2022. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
XI. OLD BUSINESS:
None        
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Appearance Committee business. They are
planning on a transitional arrangement in the pots for fall. The potato plants
have done well, so they might leave them and add mums around them. The
Appearance Committee also recommended that Kaye Badgett be appointed to the
   committee.
   The Historical Committee held their first concert in the park and it was a
success. The first band was South Ridge Bluegrass. Despite a quick food truck
replacement, the event went off without a hitch. They are still working on the
archives in the museum and area gearing up for the Holiday Tour of Homes.
   The Needmore Community Meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, July 16, 2019 at
the AG    Center on Pinehurst Avenue. A flyer is included in the packet. The
TJCOG will be working    on a small area plan for the Needmore Community.
XIII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Phillips spoke to the Board about the US Charter of Freedom. This
program works with communities    to install cement monuments of the United
States’ founding documents. These could include the Constitution or Bill of
Rights. The Town would just deed the organization a small piece of property.
Tom Robinson asked the Commissioner to bring more information to the next
meeting.
   Commissioner Wilson is going to be working with Habitat for Humanity
throughout the Carthage project and is looking forward to it.
   Tom Robinson addressed the Board about the Town’s sewer capacity. The Town
will be seeking special permission from NCDEQ to pump more than we are
generally allowed. This would only take place as the Town actively pursues
options to expand capacity.
   Mayor McGraw thanked Commissioner Nance for leading the quasi-judicial
hearing. He    reminded the attendees that the deadline to file for office is
Friday, July 19, 2019 and the cot is just $5.00.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XV. CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XVI. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Commissioner    Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board meeting was adjourned at 9:51 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
JULY 15, 2019 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
JULY 15, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Adjustment held a meeting on Monday, July 15,
2019 at the McDonald Building, during the Regular Board of Commissioners
meeting.
Present were Commissioners: Marc Phillips, George H. Wilson, Jr., and
Christopher Nance. A quorum. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy participated via
conference call and Lee McGraw recused himself from the meeting once he got the
meeting started.
Others present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Allen Smith, Police Chief
Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Several members of the community were
present, including Kim Livengood, Lee Livengood, Johnny Smith, Rhonda and Mike
Howell, Tom Daniel, Dustin Smith, Johnny Smith, Kaye Badgett, William Guillet
and Dan and Dolores Bonillo.
The purpose of the meeting was to consider a conditional use permit to build
multi-family housing on a parcel of land at the corner of Pinehurst Avenue and
South McNeill Street.
Call to Order:
The regular meeting was recessed and the Board of Adjustment was called to
order at 6:41 p.m. by Mayor McGraw, who spoke briefly about what a quasi-
judicial hearing entails. He asked everyone to be respectful and not to be
redundant. At that time, the Clerk called Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and placed
him on speaker phone. Mayor McGraw recused himself because his wife is a co-
owner of the property being considered. Commissioner Nance assumed the role of
presider for the meeting and swore all of the speakers in.
Old Business:  
Commissioner Nance explained how the meeting would flow and invited Kathy
Liles, the Town Planner, to introduce the project. Ms. Liles stated that the
parcel for consideration is identified as LRK# 00003216, a 12.46 acre tract of
property located in the RA-40 zoning district. The property is currently
undeveloped and is in the ETJ of Carthage. The proposed apartment complex is a
total of 66 units. Either R-20 or RA-40 surround the property. The back portion
of the parcel is not proposed for use at this time. The developer has applied
for the CUP before any more resources are spent to supply the final site plan,
etc. The buildings will have a maximum of 16 units each, with a maximum height
of 35 feet tall and a maximum length of 150 fee each building. The Moore County
Fire Marshal has stated that only one egress/ingress is required. The buildings
will have sprinkler systems. The property will be annexed into the Town limits
if the CUP is approved.
Next, William Guillet, also known as Billy, address the Board as the applicant.
He stated that after doing many comparisons, this area has a desperate need for
quality, safe housing. Billy stated that he used both Novagradic and NC Housing
Coalition to gather information about the area. Billy stated that the developer
will have to apply for a driveway permit from the NCDOT and they are subject to
all requirements that the NCDOT requests. The apartment complex will house a
full time manager, full time maintenance person and they use a very strict
resident policy. They do not allow any felons to reside on the property.
Sometimes, a police officer will be given an apartment on site, to help the
residents feel safer. Billy stated that residents are given a parking pass and
guests must park in the guest parking area. Rhonda Howell asked whether the 10-
20% DPHHS residents would be exceeded to fill the apartments? Billy said that
the company only does the minimum required subsidized housing and that a police
presence is not typically needed. Ms. Kimberly Livengood asked about the
setbacks changing based on widening of the road. Debra Stringer, a resident in
Savannah Garden, asked to make sure that the woodland stream will be left and
also recommended that the property manager reside in an apartment there.
Jonathan Watts asked about how they can ensure that property values would
remain stable for nearby and adjacent property owners. Amanda Nunn asked who
they were trying to house-locals or folks moving here? Tom Daniels asked he has
the expertise to speak on real estate values. Tom Robinson explained the USDA
loan process. Harry Powell stated that the apartment complex would devastate
the older homes and mature trees in the area. Al and Patty Barber stated that
they don’t have anything against growth, but they are concerned about the
traffic and the condition of the roads. Jonathan Watts said that he doesn’t see
a need for more housing in Carthage and especially does not want another
complex similar to Greentree Apartments. Tom Daniel provided a letter written
by a local real estate agent stating that the construction of apartments in
that area would be harmful to property owners. Mr. Howell aid that the Town
should focus on builing a better community, not a bigger one. Kimberly
Livengood addressed the Board next. She asked that all of her supporting
materials be entered into the record. She spoke first on behalf of her brother,
Keith Duncan. His property is right beside the proposed apartment area. He is
concerned that his property will be flooded because of a natural stream that
runs parallel to Pinehurst Avenue. He is afraid that once the apartments are
built, there will be nowhere for the water to go. There are also concerns of
excess light and noise emitted to his property. And that people might take
advantage of him because he is handicapped and cannot defend himself as well.
Ms. Livengood stated that she had not been given all of the information
regarding the apartments. Once she received notification of the proposed
project, she wrote a petition and asked for signatures from many residents in
Town. Currently, there are over 200 signatures. She stated that the resident
selection process at the proposed apartments would waive the credit check for
people receiving government aid. Ms. Livengood proposed that Section 8 housing
means more crime in the area. According to Ms. Livengood’ s research with the
American Community Survey, property values decrease 13.8% with government
assisted housing in the area. Ms. Livengood also mentioned the strain that the
Moore County Schools would have after more families moved to the area. Ms.
Liles argued that several species of plant and animal life would be harmed by
building the apartments. Kimberly was concerned that the increase in traffic
was not given enough significance. She also stated that because of 20% of the
residents being on government aid, they would not be able to drive up the local
economy very much.
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, from the telephone, said that low income people cannot be
discriminated against and that it is not a good practice to “select,” the
resident’s based on income. Tom Daniels address Mr. Dowdy and stated that his
realtor had written the letter of expert testimony. He asked Mayor Pro-tem to
refute the Realtor’s statement. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy stated that a person can
always find someone to state what opinion you are looking for. The Town needs
to be very careful not to make a decision based on discriminatory thoughts.
Commissioner Nance asked the Board if they had anything else to say regarding
the hearing. Commissioner Wilson shared Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy’s sentiment about
not discriminating. He doesn’t feel like all of the outcomes will be negative.
He feels like a lot of evidence submitted was anecdotal and not factual.
Commissioner Nance said that he has received more evidence to deny the
application that to approve it. Commissioner Phillips said that housing is a
problem all over the US. Commissioner Nance closed the Public Hearing at 9:
05p.m. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Phillips and Commissioner Wilson the same time, the Board of
Adjustment approved the Conditional Use Permit for the apartment complex near
the intersection of Pinehurst Avenue and S. McNeill Street subject to the
conditions listed on the Finding of Fact. Motion passes 3:1. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________       ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk             Lee McGraw, Chairman
AUGUST 8, 2019 SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
AUGUST 8, 2019
6:00 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Moore County Board of
Commissioners held a Special joint meeting on Thursday, August 8, 2019 at 6:00
p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present from the Town were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Marc Phillips, Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Jimmy
Chalflinch, and Commissioner George Wilson. Town staff present were Town
Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Present from the County were Board Chairman Frank Quis, Vice Chair Catherine
Graham, Commissioner Louis Gregory, and Commissioner Jerry Daeke. County staff
present includes County Clerk Laura Williams, County Attorney Misty Leland,
Capital Projects Manager Rich Smith, Town Manager Wayne Vest and County Asst
Manager Janet Parris. Also present were Jason Hopkins from Moseley Architects
and Tucker McKenzie from Wetherill Engineering and a couple of local citizens.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
County Commissioner Frank Quis called the County Board meeting to order at 6:
30p.m. Subsequently, Mayor McGraw called the Town Board meeting to order.
Everyone in the Board room introduced themselves.
II. INVOCATION:
County Manager Wayne Vest gave the opening invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Town Mayor Lee McGraw led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance.             
X. NEW BUSINESS:
Rich Smith introduced the proposed project. The State Judiciary system has
mandated that the County increase their courthouse facility space. The County
has tried to plan the most efficient, safe and functional space possible. At
that time, he introduced Jason Hopkins with Moseley Architects and Tucker
McKenzie with Wetherill Engineering. Mr. Hopkins said that courthouses are
typically very functionally driven. With the proposed plans, the existing
courthouse building will still be used, which allows the County to save
taxpayer money.
The first model that was shown indicated the building would be right on the
existing corner and the building would have zero property line setbacks, only
allowing space for the minimum amount of sidewalk that is required. The lobby
size would have to be reduced which might impact the efficiency and safety of
the space. Also, because of the proximity to existing buildings, a special
foundation would have to be engineered to make sure it can support the
building. The building is proposed to have four business floors and a basement
for safe parking.
The second option would have a similar footprint, but would be shifted over
onto Dowd Road. The lobby size would increase and the courtrooms would be more
spacious. Regardless of the location of the building, Dowd Road would most
likely be closed during construction to allow a staging area for the
construction equipment and crew. If the proposed building was shifted out to
Dowd Street, an urban plaza will be built in the remaining portions of the
area. This would allow greater unification of the existing and new buildings.
The basement level would be used to secure parking for judges as well as access
to the existing sally port, to transfer prisoners.
Tucker McKenzie spoke briefly about how the traffic patterns could potentially
be shifted. Jason Hopkins summarized the presentation by stating that the
advantages of closing Dowd and shifting the building over were: functionality,
ability to enlarge the lobby, more efficient foundation system, more room for
construction activities, preserving the sally port and parking for judges, the
urban plaza, unification of existing and new buildings and easier access for
pedestrians.
Mayor McGraw asked if the existing courthouse could support any upward
additions, but Jason Hopkins said that he did not believe it would be strong
enough. County Commissioner Louis Gregory asked which plan was least expensive.
Mr. Hopkins said that it was almost a wash when the special foundation that
would have to be constructed versus the larger lobby square footage. Town
Commissioner Marc Phillips asked if it would be possible to just close one lane
of Dowd Street. Mayor McGraw stated that he had grown up in Carthage and he was
very worried about the amount of traffic in that area and how things would
shift. County Vice Chair Catherine Graham stated that a parking deck is too
cost prohibitive at the moment.
The proposed courthouse facility is approximately 160,000 square feet. County
Manager Wayne Vest stated that they were all aware that parking is an issue
already. They are working on and have identified several areas in that area
that can be used for parking. Mayor McGraw stated that he thought the
architectural renderings looked great, but he asked that all the options be
considered. The County Manger said that they would definitely not force the
issue and they want to work in concert with the Town. When asked about building
the structure up one more floor, Mr. Hopkins stated that it wouldn’t help
because the footprint starts on the second floor with the courtrooms.
Commissioner Louis Gregory asked about public parking and Rich Smith indicated
several locations.
A local resident was asked for her opinion and she stated that she was appalled
that this plan was even being considered. She said that there are few
crosswalks in Town and there was not enough notice about the meeting to the
public.
Town Manager asked about the size of the sidewalk that would be maintained on
Saunders Street. Mr. McKenzie said that it would remain at least five feet
wide. The schematics and drawings cost about $2.5 million dollars and the
entire project will cost approximately $35 million. Chairman Quis suggested
posting the schematics out for the public to see. The Town Board asked the
County to proceed with obtaining a traffic Impact Analysis for the area. Then
more information can be shared with the public.
Retired architect, Howard Warren, summarized the three options:
   1. Build the Courthouse, but use the more restrictive footprint
   2. Build the Courthouse in the suggested footprint with the courtyard, and
   3. Build outside of Town
Town Manager, Tom Robinson agreed that it would be good to get as much
information out to the public as possible. Once the traffic study is done, a
public meeting should be held.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XV. CLOSED SESSION: 
None
XVI. REGULAR MEETING/ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Wilson,
the Board meeting was adjourned. After a motion by Vice Chair Catherine Graham
and seconded by Commissioner Daeke, the meeting adjourned at 7:33 p.m. All
ayes. Motion carried.
 
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 19, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 19, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, August 19, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner Marc
Phillips, and Commissioner Christopher Nance. Commissioner George Wilson
arrived late to the meeting.
Town staff present were Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Police Chief Bart Davis,
Finance Director Kesha Matthews, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Town Planner Kathy
Liles and Police Detective Jason Blackburn and his family. Town Attorney, Al
Benshoff attended, Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot and Chris Prentice from the
Sandhills Sentinel were present. Many Town residents also attended including
Victoria Riddle, Jonsie Caddell, Al Barber, Debra Stringer, Dustin Smith, and
Rhonda and Mike Howell.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes July 15, 2019
   Board of Commissioners Board of Adjustment Meeting Minutes July 15, 2019
   Special Joint Meeting Minutes August 8, 2019
   Budget Amendment #1
VI. CARTHAGE POLICE DEPARTMENT
    A. Police Chief Bart Davis explained the selection process and meaning of
the William Kyle Ferrell award. He announced that the 2018 recipient was
Detective Jason Blackburn. The award is in recognition Detective Blackburn’s
achievements and in loving memory of William K. Ferrell. Jason Blackburn shook
hands with the Board of Commissioners.
VII. PUBLIC HEARING: 
McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:38 p.m. Ms. Dutton    explained the
request to rezone three parcels of land owned by the Estate of John S. Caddell.
These properties are under the care of Ms. Jonsie Riddle. The three parcels of
land were    previously used as part of a mobile home park, but at some point
through the years, the parcels were rezoned to the R-20 zoning district which
makes mobile homes a nonconforming use. It was recently discovered because a
resident wanted to rent a lot there and pull in a mobile home. Even though
these three lots are across the street from the    majority of the park, the
rezoning would not be considered spot zoning and the tracts have been used for
mobile homes for over fifty years. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy asked about Staff
working on a text amendment to discuss mobile homes and continuing them as a
non-conformity. Ms. Dutton stated that it would be addressed as soon as
possible. All of the adjacent property owners were notified, the property was
posted and the Planning Board made a positive recommendation for the approval
of the rezoning and map amendment. The Public Hearing was closed at 6:45 p.m.
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and    seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency
as it pertains to the Rezoning of Parcels 00000966, 00000963 and 20150117. All
ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded
by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the rezoning of 00000966,
00000963 and 20150117 from R-20 to RMH and the map amendment as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried.
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
Ms. Dutton discussed the items on the Town Manager’s Report, as the Town
Manager was on vacation. The Public Services department is still understaffed.
Allen Smith, the Director of Public Services has interviewed for the position
of Assistant Director, but no one had been hired at that time. In addition, a
regular labor position is available.
   Many members of the Staff and also Bill Lester and Mark Lacey from LKC
Engineering met with Trent Allen to discuss the Town receiving special
permission to operate our sewer pumps for longer periods of time in order to
although for more capacity until the new sewer line is constructed. LRK will be
sending Mr. Allen some more reports, but Mr. Allen feels optimistic that the
Town would be able to operate in that capacity. The Preliminary    Engineering
Report is still wrapping up. That report is needed to move forward with the
USDA Grant/Loan process.
   There has been some recent interest in our downtown area. First of all, a
new owner has taken over the section of downtown businesses addressed from 10-
16 Courthouse Square.    Mr. Aaron Decker has purchased the buildings and will
be demolishing some of the interior walls to create (4) open suites for
prospective businesses to come to Carthage. In addition, a    businessman from
the Cary area has requested copies of the report on the Carthage Buggy Building
and the report that was completed by Hilary Greenburg. We are hopeful that we
will hear more from that businessman.
   The Little River are might finally be developed. The investment group from
Texas has teamed up with DH Horton, a well-known builder from the triangle
area. They are asking to build up to 1400 homes in the next ten years.
   Three representatives from NC State Parks and Recreation visited the Town to
assess our existing park facilities and also to give advice on future grant
applications. They were very encouraged by the proposed Savannah Garden park
area.
   The Board of Commissioners has mentioned building a sidewalk down Rockingham
Street to    make school traffic more accessible and easier to monitor. There
have been a few bids that were received. The lowest bit was from McFadden
Construction. We will ensure that his price covers the entire scope of work
that is required before any contracts are signed.
X. NEW BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton described a possible text amendment regarding home occupations in
accessory structures. The Planning Board started their discussion at the last
meeting. Ms. Dutton provided a comparison of how other municipalities and
counties permit home occupations. The Planning Board feels that they will be
able to make a recommendation by the next meeting but area considering adding
conditions that would limit with areas the use would be allowed. After a motion
made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board
set the date for the public hearing for the September 16, 2019 to discuss a
home occupation amendment. All ayes. Motion carried.
Attorney, Al Benshoff provided an overview of the legislative changes that were
recently made. The main one is a law that was sponsored by the Home Builders
Association. Because it is so new, the implications are not completely known
yet, but developers will be able to select which ordinance is used when their
projects are submitted in between versions. Vested rights cannot be disputed as
long as they were in existence before the new ordinances were adopted. All
entities that issue zoning permits will have to use many of the definitions
that are in the building code only.
Ms. Dutton explained the proposed Social Media Policy to the Board and stated
that it will hopefully keep some of the ranting and disrespectful comments of
the Facebook pages. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of the Social
Media Policy, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Dutton and Kesha Matthews explained the proposed personnel policy change
which would allow employees to automatically receive a 5% increase after their
probationary period. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of
the Personnel Policy regarding the 5% pay increase. All ayes. Motion carried. 
XI. OLD BUSINESS:   
    A. Ms. Dutton explained that the Board has already approved a Resolution in
support of donating the property at 103 Old Glendon Road for affordable
housing. The current resolution is also stating that all of the closing costs
and back taxes are the responsibility of Habitat for Humanity. After a motion
made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
approved the Resolution approving the donation of real property to provide
affordable housing, as presented.
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Committees and Planning Board business. The
Appearance Committee is planning on a transitional arrangement in the pots for
fall. The potato plants have done well, so they will leave them and pumpkins
around them along with some mums. The Historical Committee continues to host
their concerts in the park and they have been a success. The next concert is
Sunday, August 25, 2019 where Momma Molasses will perform. They have also
decided to postpone the Holiday Tour of Homes until next year. That will keep
the event fresher and will hopefully allow for more willing participants.
   The Planning Board met on August 1, 2019. They made a favorable
recommendation for the Caddell-Riddle rezoning and also began their discussion
about home occupations in accessory structures.
   Ms. Dutton introduced the idea of hosting another Fall Town event this year.
Last year was a success, but it was costly and the timing was off because of
the darkness needed to show the film. She suggested hosting a small carnival-
type event. A couple of food trucks would be invited, free popcorn and cotton
candy would be provided, as well as drinks. There would be    a few carnival
style games and a bouncy house. The Town would also still provide the
   pumpkin carving tools and stencils for those that wanted to carve their
pumpkins. Overall, the event would probably be appealing to some people and
would be less expensive for the Town.
   The Pinckney Pathways program is nearing its start. The “signing” day is
scheduled for    August 28, 2019 at 1:00 p.m. There is also a community build
day scheduled for October 5,    2019 from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
   The second Needmore Community Meeting was successful. There were fewer
people in attendance, but there was more productive conversation. Ms. Kathy
Liles mentioned the need for a Needmore community intern to help try to get
people more involved. The intern would rather a lot of data. Roland Gilliam has
offered an area of land to build a Needmore Community sign and the participants
are trying to form a walking group to help make people more active. The next
Needmore Community meeting is scheduled for September 28, 2019.
XIII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Wilson apologized for being tardy to the meeting. Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy expressed thanks to the group that is working on the Needmore project and
all of the Town staff. Commissioner Phillips mentioned that disaster assistance
is now available through the Triangle J Council of Governments. Mayor Lee
McGraw said that everything seems to be running smoothly in Town and all the
staff is doing well. He is especially grateful for the Fire Department, Police
Department and Public Services departments for continuing to work hard through
the extreme heat conditions.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Phillips gave the closing prayer.
XV. ADJOURNMENT-
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Regular Board meeting was adjourned at 7:05 p.m. Everyone left
the Board room with the exception of the Board of Commissioners, the Mayor,
Town Attorney, Al Benshoff and Town Clerk, Dorothy Dutton in preparation for
the Closed Session.
 XV. CLOSED SESSION: 
The Closed Session was opened at 7:11 p.m. for the Board to consult with our
attorney. The Closed Session was closed at 7:26 p.m. and the Board adjourned.
         
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Lee McGraw, Mayor
AUGUST 28, 2019 SPECIAL MEETING
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 28, 2019
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special meeting on August
28, 2019 at 5:00 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Lee McGraw, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton T. Dowdy, Commissioners
Christopher Nance, Jimmy Chalflinch, and George Wilson. Others present were
Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton and Town Attorney, T.C.
Morphis.
I. CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
II. INVOCATION: 
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the opening prayer.
III. CLOSED SESSION: 
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the Board recessed the Regular and entered into Closed Session to
discuss business with the attorney and to maintain the client-attorney
privilege regarding the lawsuit known as Daniel v. Town of Carthage, Moore 19
CVS 1027.
IV. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton
Dowdy, the Board reopened the Special Meeting and adjourned at 5:32 p.m. All
ayes. Motion carried.
 
 
_______________________________             ___________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk       Lee McGraw, Mayor
SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, September 16, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor McGraw, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner Marc
Phillips, Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Chalflinch and
Commissioner George Wilson.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, Public Services Director Allen
Smith, Assistant Public Services Director Brandon Brown, Public Works
Technician Michael McKinney, and Town Planner Kathy Liles. Also present from
the public were Dustin Smith, Johnny Smith, Chris Sweet, Farrah Pulliam,
Patricia Daw, David Lambert, Mike and Rhonda Howell, Debra Stringer, Kim
Livengood and her husband. Chris Prentice from the Sandhills Sentinel was
present as well as Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor McGraw called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Lee McGraw gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge    of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
 The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Wilson.    All ayes. Motion carried.
   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes August 19, 2019
   Board of Commissioner Closed Session Minutes August 19, 2019
   Board of Commissioners Special Meeting Minutes August 28, 2019
   Board of Commissioners Closed Session Minutes August 28, 2019
   Budget Amendment #2
   Utility Write-off Accounts
VII. PUBLIC HEARING: 
McGraw opened the Public Hearing at 6:35 p.m. Ms. Dutton    explained the
proposed text amendment that would allow accessory buildings to be used in home
occupations. Many municipalities allow this use, provided certain criteria are
met.    Currently, the NC Department of Transportation is looking to widen NC
24-27 Hwy through Carthage. This would mean that they would demolish a hair
salon that has been in the same location for over thirty (30) years. If the
owner of the salon can relocate her little building to her residential
property, she would like to do so. Ms. Dutton stated that the Planning Board
   approved the Statement of Land Use Consistency and made a recommendation to
approve the amendment. The public hearing was closed at 6:41 p.m. After a
motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton
Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency as
it pertains to home occupations. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made
by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board
approved the amendment allowing accessory buildings to be used for home
occupations with the following conditions:
     1. A commercial district abuts the property on at least one side
    2. The accessory structure has to meet the zoning guidelines regarding
setbacks and maximum size for that of a customary accessory building
    3. Only sandwich board signs and customary yard signs are permitted.
    4. Home occupations may occupy only one (1) parking space on the street.
All other clients/customers must use the residence’s private driveway.
     All ayes. Motion carried.
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Mr. Robinson announced that both positions in the Public Services Department
have been filled. Allen Smith introduced Michael McKinney and Brandon Brown.
   Kathy Liles and Dorothy Dutton met with Bob Koontz last week to discuss the
Little River Farm development. The project will soon be brought before the
Planning Board and Board of Commissioners for review. But first, staff would
gather individuals from all of the    approving departments to review the
plans.
   The Preliminary Engineering Report is nearly completed which will allow the
Town to move forward with USDA to determine the grant percentage that we might
be eligible for. The environmental review will also have to take place.
    Mr. Wayne Vest and Rich Smith from Moore County recently met with Tom
Robinson to assure him that the Town would be involved with the traffic impact
study. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked about whether there would be any public
hearings before decisions were made. He is concerned about the inconvenience it
will cause to the Town people if the block of Dowd Road is closed. He would
like to send a reminder that Carthage is still involved and their concerns
aren’t going away. Commissioner Wilson asked them to address the parking issue
beforehand.
   Tom Robinson asked Farrah Pulliam, from Habitat for Humanity for an update
on the Pinkney Project. She addressed the Board and said that things are going
very well so far. The foundation is finished on the home. And the students
built a tool shed. The contractor said that the kids are showing such a sense
of pride in what they have done so far. The students spend Monday in the
classroom and then Tuesday through Friday they are on site from 11:30 a.m. to
2:30 p.m.
X. NEW BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton described a possible text amendment regarding non-conforming mobile
homes being replaced. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy had asked the Clerk to look
into changing the ordinance. The current Town Development Ordinance does not
allow any replacement of mobile homes except in districts where they are
permitted by right. There are instances in which some people might want to
upgrade or replace their mobile homes with newer models, but the ordinance
prevents them from doing so. After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and
seconded by both Commissioner Chalflinch and Commissioner Wilson, the Board set
the Public hearing for October 21, 2019 to discuss the replacement of mobile
home. All ayes. Motion carried.
Fire Chief, Brian Tyner addressed the Board and explained that they have a 1986
Chevrolet C20 pickup truck with a V8 gas motor that they no longer use. It has
a manual 4-speed transmission and is 4-wheel drive. It was once used as their
brush truck, but now it sits unused and the Fire Department would like to
recoup some money for it, if they could sell it. After a motion made by
Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commission Chalflinch, the Board approved
designating the truck as surplus and trying to sell it. All ayes. Motion
carried.
The LED Message sign has been a wonderful tool at getting information out to
the public. Now there are many groups that would like to publicize their events
or meetings. Ms. Dutton reached out to a few municipalities to compare their
sign policies and described the application that was presented. She asked the
Board for their guidance with the policy. No one thought charging a fee was
necessary. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy thought that it might cause more issues because
people might feel there is a bias. After more discussion, the Board agreed to
allow only non-profit special events and fundraisers to be listed on the sign
and no more than ten (10) days prior to the event.
Tom Robinson reviewed the sidewalk and street paving projects that are
identified as being a priority. Saunders Street sidewalk improvements are
already planned. NCDOT uses a chip and seal technique that lasts for about 7
years. The other streets that are of higher priority are Morgan Street,
Pinehurst Avenue and Leake Street. The sidewalks that are of higher priority
are Rockingham Street and Martin Street. After a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved
appropriating general fund balance to cover the cost of sidewalk replacement on
Martin Street and Rockingham Street, as presented in Appendix A. All ayes.
Motion carried.
XI. OLD BUSINESS:   
    A. The Town Manager stated that he was recently made aware that Town staff
had neglected to order and install Sister City signs after the declaration was
signed last year. Ms. Dutton mentioned that she is waiting to hear back from
NCDOT to determine if there are any regulations or guideline that are required.
But she provided several possibilities for the signs. Mr. Robinson suggested
that the Town staff take care of selecting a sign.
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Committees and Planning Board business. The
Appearance Committee is in the process of    transitioning the downtown planter
into a fall arrangement. They have added pumpkins to the potato plants and have
planted mums in the larger pots. Tom Prim has been working tirelessly to
prepare the Christmas trees for the downtown. This year will take a little more
time to set up, but they should be easier moving forward. The Historical
Committee is still working on organizing the collections. They are not going to
host the Tour of Homes this holiday season. Instead, they will host an Open
House event at the Museum on Sunday, December 8, 2019. This event will feature
live music and refreshments. Jerry Miller reached out to the Museum to offer
some prints that he did of some Town buildings. The committee agreed to
purchase more, for a total of ten (10) each print. They will sell them at the
Open House and the Buggy Festival next year. The Planning Board met and were
able to make favorable recommendations on both the home occupation amendment
and the non-conforming mobile home amendment. Ms. Dutton is planning a fall
festival for the Town scheduled for October 23, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. at Nancy
Kiser Park. So far, a bouncy house has been reserved, a face    painter is
scheduled and she has started inviting the churches in the area to participate.
The Historical Committee will read the children spooky stories on the Museum
porch during the    event. Mr. Robinson stated that the Public Services
department has made strides tending to the park and it looks much better than
it did.
XIII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Wilson made no additional comments. Mayor Pro-tem expressed
gratitude for the town office and is    glad that the Public Service department
is fully staffed again. He stated that the Police    Department and Fire
Department has always done a good job, too. Commissioner Phillips said that he
was grateful for the CodeRED messaging system.
XV. ADJOURNMENT-
After a motion made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Regular Board meeting was adjourned at 7:41 p.m. Everyone left the
Board room with the exception of the Board of Commissioners, the Mayor, Town
Manager Tom Robinson and Town Clerk, Dorothy Dutton in preparation for the
Closed Session.
XV. CLOSED SESSION: 
The Closed Session was opened at 7:53 p.m. per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11.a. (6). To
consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness,
conditions of appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual
public officer or employee or prospective public officer or employee; etc. The
Closed Session was closed at 8:32 p.m. and the Board adjourned.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Milton T. Dowdy, Mayor Pro-tem
OCTOBER 21, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 21, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, October 21, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner Marc Phillips,
Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Chalflinch and Commissioner George
Wilson.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Public Services Director
Allen Smith. Brandon Emory was present to represent Alliance Code Enforcement.
Also present from the public were Dustin Smith, Johnny Smith, Mike Howell, Dan
Bonillo, Al Barber, Harry Powell and Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Christopher Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes September 16, 2019
   Board of Commissioner Closed Session Minutes September 16, 2019
   Budget Amendment #5
   Updated agenda as presented
VII. PUBLIC HEARING: 
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy opened the Public Hearing at 6:31 p.m. Ms.    Dutton
explained the proposed text amendment that would allow manufactured homes to be
replaced with another manufactured home under the following conditions:
    a. The replacement occurs within 365 days of the last day of occupancy of
the original manufactured home.
   b. The new manufactured home may be larger in size, but it cannot create any
new non-conformities including setbacks. All porches or decks will be included
in the setback calculation.
   c. The manufactured home that is being replaced must be removed from the
property before a Certificate of Occupancy can be issued by the Moore County
Building Inspections office.
   d. The location of the manufactured home may be changed so long as it
reduces the non-conformity with regard to setbacks. (Moving the manufactured
home farther back onto the property to bring the front setback into compliance
for that zoning district).
   e. If the home is to be served by a septic system, the septic approval is to
be obtained before the zoning permit is issued.
   Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy explained that the previous ordinance had inadvertently
caused a hardship for many people because a manufactured home was all that they
could afford. The Public Hearing was closed at 6:34 p.m. After a motion was
made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by    Commissioner Nance, the Board
approved the Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency as it pertains to
replacing nonconforming manufactured homes. All ayes. Motion carried. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch and
Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the amendment to the Town of Carthage
Development Ordinances as it pertains to replacing nonconforming manufactured
homes with the above conditions. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Mr. Robinson mentioned that Town staff is still working with the possible
developers of the Little    River Farm property. There are still the other
subdivisions that are forthcoming: Southbury, Savannah Garden Phase II and the
area designated as Pine Tree Estates. A new potential developer is working with
Ron Jackson and might be purchasing the area that was Pine Tree Estates. Our
attorney, T.C. Morphis is working with Ron Jackson’s attorney to secure a deed
for the open space along Robert Place. This will be set us as passive
recreation until we are able to secure funding for more. The appeal of the
Conditional Use Permit for the apartment complex on Pinehurst Avenue is
scheduled for December or January. The Town has been working on sidewalk
projects including Saunders Street. The preliminary engineering report is
almost complete and LRK will submit the report to USDA to move forward with the
sewer grant and loan program. Town staff has reached out to several individuals
about serving on the Downtown Development Steering Committee. The Town Manager
has also spoken to Lee McGraw about    chairing the committee. The Fall
Festival is scheduled for this Wednesday, October 23rd. The Clerk will go into
more detail later in the meeting.
    Brandon Emory addressed the Board and gave an update of the active cases in
Carthage. There have been three cases abated since the last meeting. The owner
is still working on 202 W. Barrett Street, but are having trouble securing an
engineer to assess the building. The Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and Commissioner
Wilson complimented Mr. Emory on his success.
    Tom Robinson mentioned that the Town has acquired a blower and that it is
already improving the appearance of Carthage.
X. NEW BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton read aloud the resignation letter that was submitted to the Board
from the former Mayor, Lee McGraw. Mr. McGraw recently resigned from his
position because he no longer resides within the Town limits. The Mayor Pro-tem
said that Lee’s passion and love for the Town will be missed. He said that Mr.
McGraw did not do anything wrong, that it was only because of the address.
After a motion by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch,
the Board formally accepted Lee McGraw’s resignation letter. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
Ms. Dutton explained that a developer is interested in the parcel that was
approved as Pine Tree Estates, but is requesting a Conditional Zoning permit to
reduce the minimum lot width from 100 feet to 75 feet. So far, no other aspects
of the project would be changing. The Planning Board is starting the
discussions. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Wilson, the Board set the Public Hearing to hear the Conditional
Zoning request for LRK#00000989 for November 18, 2019. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Mr. Lee McGraw has requested a position on the Appearance Committee and the
committee agreed unanimously. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and
seconded by Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board appointed Lee McGraw to the
Appearance Committee for a term set to expire in October 2022. All ayes. Motion
carried. Max Muse is requesting reappointment to the Planning Board, as his
term is expired. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, Max Muse was reappointed to the Planning Board for a new
term, set to expire in October 2022. All ayes. Motion carried.
The Carthage Police Department is in need of purchasing seven vehicles from
Cooper Ford. These are to replace those being cycled out as well as one that
was damaged. After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the purchase of seven vehicles from
Cooper Ford and financing the vehicles through Ford Motor Credit in the amount
of $329,374.00. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioners Nance
and Wilson, the Board approved the replacement of the police SUV that was
involved in an accident using insurance proceeds. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI. OLD BUSINESS:    
    A. Several months ago, Moore County presented the Town with an updated
Interlocal Agreement for Building Inspection Services. After reviewing the
document, the Town found some items that needed to be revised, including the
section about minimum housing inspections. The County has resubmitted the
contract and resolution for the Board’s approval. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved
the Resolution in Support of the Interlocal Agreement for Building Inspection
Services as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
    B.  The second cycle of the Physical Activity and Nutrition Grant is
beginning soon and the authorization paperwork is due again. After a motion
made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board
authorized Tom Robinson to sign any contracts involving the grant. All ayes.
Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board authorized Kesha Matthews to sign Contract
Expenditure Reports involving the PAN grant. All ayes. Motion carried.
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Committees and Planning Board business. The
Appearance Committee is working to prepare the Christmas trees for the season.
The committee will use the McDonald Building on November 25-26th to add the
ornaments, lights and pine cones to the trees. The Public Services department
will help the committee place the trees out on November 27th. The Fall Festival
is    Wednesday, October 23rd from 6-8 p.m. A few churches and the Partnership
for Children and    Families is scheduled to come out to set up a table and
hand out goodies and information. Karefree Farms will bring pumpkins to sell. A
food truck will be set up beside the Museum. Town staff has been working hard
with preparations.
XIII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS: 
Commissioner Phillips reminded the Board that the Veterans Ceremony is November
2, 2019 at the Veteran’s Memorial    in Carthage. Commissioner Wilson mentioned
that his sister in law is not doing well and asked    that everyone keep her in
their prayers. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy thanked the Board and audience for
their patience as he grows more accustomed to his position as acting-Mayor. He
said that he would do his best to make sure that each of the Commissioners has
the opportunity to express himself for each item. He noted that even though
there might be a difference of opinion, we can all respect one another.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Phillips, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:10 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Milton T. Dowdy, Mayor Pro-tem
NOVEMBER 18, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 18, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, November 18, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner Marc Phillips,
Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Chalflinch and Commissioner George
Wilson.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Public Services Director
Allen Smith. Lee Grissom was present to represent S. Preston Douglas, the
Auditing Firm. David McKew with Suez attended and several members of the
public.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Phillips gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Wilson led everyone in reciting the pledge of    allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Several members from the public addressed the Board about the conditional
zoning request and public hearing. Kim Livengood stated that she believed the
additional (6) lots would cause overcrowding. Victor Burns and Steven Gordon
both spoke against the request. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked those concerned
citizens to wait and address the Board during the public hearing portion of the
meeting.
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance.    All ayes. Motion carried.
   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes September 16, 2019
   Board of Commissioner Closed Session Minutes September 16, 2019
   Budget Amendment #5
   Updated agenda as presented: the public hearing postponed until after the
Manager’s Report.
VI. TOWN MANAGER’S REPORT:
   Mr. Robinson mentioned that the audit report was on the agenda later in the
meeting. The Town does show a loss, but there are reasons for it, including the
new fire truck, digital sign and improvements to Caviness Park. A planning
retreat will be scheduled for early next year to go over all of the financials
with the Board.
   Little River Development plans are coming along and they will be submitting
a master plan soon for the Town to review. We will have to work with the
developer to establish an underlying zoning district. The Town is in the
process of applying for the new 16” sewer line with USDA.    We are hoping for
a sizable grant to help with the costs.
   Town Staff has organized the first Downtown Development Committee meetings
for this Thursday, November 21, 2019 at 6:30pm. The Fall Festival was a big
success and there was better attendance this year. The Code Enforcement report
was distributed this evening. Farrah    Pulliam, with Habitat provided an
update to the Board on the Pinckney Pathways home. She said that at least two
students haven’t missed a single day of school because of their participation
in the project. She invited the Commissioners to stop anytime to say hello to
the crew and students.
   The Appeal of the Conditional Use Permit is scheduled for December 2, 2019.
VII. PUBLIC HEARING:
   Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy opened the public hearing at 6:57 p.m. Ms. Dutton
and Ms. Liles    explained the request for Conditional Zoning from Richard
Larson. He has requested a reduction in lot width from 100 feet to 75 feet so
that there can be an additional (6) lots created. The expense of building in a
city can be more expensive because of road width requirements and sidewalks,
etc. Allowing the additional lots will allow the expense to be distributed more
affordably. Mr. Ronnie Fields applauded the Board for having to do such a tough
job. He said that    he was against the approval because he believes it will be
a gateway for other subdivisions to make the same request. He said that it
reminds him of Savannah’s Garden. Ms. Kim Livengood spoke next and said that
she disagreed with the Statement of Land Use Consistency. She said that she is
upset that the Town hasn’t updated the Land Use Plan in such a long time.
Victor Burnsstated that his property sits beside the proposed subdivision.
After the amount of rain we had last year, his property required major grading
and repairs. He was concerned about the extra rain run-off in the future from
the additional impervious surface. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked what the Planning
Board recommended and whether the proposed 16” sewer line would help with the
issues?
   Mr. Robinson said that the subdivision was already approved, the Board just
has to approve the additional (6) lots or just the (40) would be built. Mr.
Robinson said that the current trends in construction indicate smaller lots all
over. Ms. Livengood asked Ms. Liles about the Land Use    Consistency
Statements and how they get formulated. Ms. Liles stated that when a statement
is    written up, all of the goals and objectives do not have to be used
specifically. They can be used to generalize.
   Mr. Robinson clarified that all of the infrastructure is being installed by
the developer and not at the expense of the taxpayer. Richard Larson stated
that he liked the property because of the topography, lot size and that Town
utilities were available. All of the lots are at or greater than    20,000
square feet. And these lots are larger than the lots in Savannah’s Garden.
There was more discussion about the implications of approving the request as it
relates to storm water and also the connectivity this subdivision will allow
for water customers. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy closed the public hearing at 7:
38 p.m. After a motion was made by Commissioner Phillips and seconded by
Commissioner Chalflinch, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Land
Use Consistency as it pertains to the Conditional Zoning Request for Tyson’s
Trail. The vote was    two in favor: Commissioners Chalflinch and Phillips; and
two opposed: Commissioners Wilson and Nance. The Mayor Pro-tem voted as a tie
breaker in favor. Motion carries.
   After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner
Chalflinch, the    Board approved the Ordinance approving the map amendment and
conditional zoning request    for Tyson’s Trail, or LRK# 00000989. The vote was
two in favor: Commissioners Phillips and    Chalflinch; two opposed:
Commissioners Nance and Wilson. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy voted as a tie breaker in
favor. Motion carries.
X. NEW BUSINESS:
Lee Grissom with S. Preston Douglas presented the audit report to the Board.
The audit was clean with an unmodified opinion. He said that everything was
given in a timely manner. This year was unusual because of the water and sewer
fund. The general fund is down because of the purchase of the fire truck. But
the emergency fund is still strong, there are four months in reserve. Already,
the Town’s cash balance is $160,000 better than it was at the end of the fiscal
year. As usual, there is a conflict of duties because of such a small staff.
Mr. Robinson stated that we are on the verge of needing another person in the
office. Ms. Dutton can take on some of the financial duties so that there is
back up. All small jurisdictions struggle with the same issue.
Ms. Dutton went over some information about the Christmas Parade and asked the
Board to consider the Ordinance to close the roads during the parade. After a
motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by Commissioner Phillips, the
Board approved the Ordinance Declaring Road Closure during the Christmas
Parade. All ayes. Motion carried.
A handrail is required on the sidewalk at Martin Street. Allen Smith requested
proposals from several companies and the most affordable and best quality
handrail is $7168.00. After a motion made by Commissioner Chalflinch and
seconded by Commissioner Wilson, the Board approved the budget amendment for
$7168, for the new handrail. All ayes. Motion carried. 
XI. OLD BUSINESS: None
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
    A. David McKew addressed the Board and concerned citizens about the recent
water concerns. He suggested that the reason for the water change could be in
part because one of the    Town’s pumps went down and we purchased water from
the Town of Southern Pines. Suez reacted by gathering samples, flushing and
investigating each complaint. Overall, over 50 samples were collected from
different areas. Generally, tests are done to check the chlorine, bacteria and
pH levels. None of the results showed irregularities of any kind. Mayor Pro-
tem suggested that Suez start working on a regular flushing schedule to make
sure that the chlorine levels stay at the desired levels. Mr. McKew said that
they have a burnout scheduled for March, but would consider moving that up
some. Mr. Robinson said that Town Staff and the Mayor Pro-tem had already
worked to identify approximately 17 areas that dead end lines. Town staff will
revisit the list. Kim Livengood asked about replacing the older, cast iron
pipes and Mr. Dowdy said that it an expensive project. The Town would have to
have some growth in order to start replacing old lines.     
    B. Ms. Dutton gave the Town committee reports.
XIII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS: 
Both Commissioners Phillips and Chalflinch commented that the Christmas lights
look great downtown. Commissioner Wilson said that it has been a pleasure to
serve on the Board and looks     forward to serving in other capacities. Mayor
Pro-tem said that it is tough to do the best job that you can as a human being.
Sometimes the job is not easy and everyone is not going to    agree. But just
because you hold a public office, does not mean that you are a beating stick.
It should never become personal, because that is life.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Wilson gave the closing prayer.
XV. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Wilson and seconded by    Commissioner
Nance, the Board meeting was adjourned at 8:32 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
         
 
______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
DECEMBER 16, 2019
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 16, 2019
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, December 16, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner Marc Phillips,
Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Chalflinch and Commissioner George
Wilson.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner, and Public Services Director
Allen Smith. Susan Hicks, the Clerk of Court was present and well as Jaymie
Baxley from the Pilot. Al Barber and his family was in attendance as well as
Dan Bonillo and his family. There were also several other members of the public
attending.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Nance gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of    allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Nance.    All ayes. Motion carried.
   Board of Commissioners Regular Meeting Minutes November 18, 2019
   Budget Amendment #13
VII. PUBLIC HEARING: None
VIII. RESOLUTION FOR LEE MCGRAW:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy asked the Town    Clerk to read the Resolution for
Lee McGraw and then presented him with a plaque, thanking him for his many
years of service and leadership in the Town.
IX. RESIGNATION OF JIMMY CHALFLINCH AS COMMISSIONER:
Commissioner Jimmy Chalflinch stated that he would like to resign from his
Commissioner seat in order to serve as Mayor. After a motion made by
Commissioner Phillips and seconded by Commissioner Wilson,
X. SWEARING IN OF ELECTED MAYOR AND COMMISSIONERS:
Susan Hicks, Clerk of Court, administered the oath of office to Jimmy
Chalflinch, the new Mayor and to the new Commissioners Dan Bonillo and Al
Barber.
XI. RECESS FOR REFRESHMENTS:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy welcomed the new Board members and asked for a
recess for refreshments at 6:45 p.m.
XII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
   The meeting was resumed at 7:03 p.m. and Mr. Robinson gave his report. At
this time, the new Board members and elected Mayor took their seats at the
Board table. Mr. Trent Allen with the state sent the Town a letter stating that
no more development can take place until we get the sewer project started or
until we receive special permission to exceed the daily maximum sewer flows.
Tom Robinson already put a call into Senator Tom McInnis asking for his help in
soliciting a response from NCDEQ regarding the requested increased sewer flows.
The sewer expansion will take approximately two and a half years to complete.
   The developer for the Little River project has provided notebooks with a lot
of information and    maps for their proposed project. Town staff has already
started bringing all of the involved parties together to review the project and
ask questions. Before anything moves forward, a Master    Development Agreement
will have to be in place and the Master Plan will have to be approved.
   The appeal of the Board of Adjustment decision to approve the apartment
complex has been postponed until January 2020.
   Town staff would like to host a planning retreat when all of the Board seats
are filled. The Orientation packet is being finalized. In addition, there is
School of Government training available in January. Mr. Dutton will coordinate
to schedule. He said that sometimes it is nice for all of the existing
commissioners to take the class again because it helps the Board bond and
compare certain situations. Commissioner Nance asked for a status update for
the Fred’s building. Mr. Robinson explained that the County has purchased it
and are proceeding with their plans. There was one snag because the adjacent
lot the County purchased has a Historical home on the property. Because the
Town doesn’t have any Historic Preservation guidelines, they can move forward
without approvals.
XIII. NEW BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton asked the Board to approve the proposed Regular meeting schedule for
the next year. The meetings will remain on the third Monday of each month, with
the exception of Martin Luther King holiday. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved the schedule
as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Tom Robinson explained the proposed method for appointing a new Board member.
Staff has consulted with the attorney and the interviews have to take place in
open session. After the interviews, the Board can deliberate and make a
decision at that time, or they can wait and make a decision at the January
regular meeting. But a Special Meeting has to be set ahead of the regular
meeting, so that the interviews can be conducted. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Special Meeting was
scheduled for January 14, 2020 at 6:30pm. All ayes. Motion carried. That is one
week prior to the regular meeting.
Ms. Dutton reviewed the site plan for the proposed Burger King. Fast food
restaurants are allowed in the TBD. The site plan already indicates ample
parking and stacking areas. The NCDOT has confirmed that they will not be
taking any of the right of way on that parcel. There will be buffering and the
lights will shine down, away from traffic or adjacent properties. In addition,
the Burger King is able to use the existing 4” sewer line, so we won’t require
anything from the state. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked about the grease traps and
Allen Smith confirmed that the correct ones will be installed. In addition to
the site plan, the Board considered the request for Special Non-Residential
Intensity Allocation of up to 70% impervious surface. The Planning Board made
the recommendation that the Board of Commissioners approve the site plan and
SNIA. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioners
Nance and Bonillo simultaneously, the Board approved the proposed Burger King
site plan and the request for the Special Non-Residential Intensity Allocation
for LRK# 00990632 as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Dutton explained the confusion regarding Antoniette Kelly’s property at 180
Burle Road. Ms. Kelly has been voting as a town resident and receiving public
utilities. But the tax records indicate that the property is in the ETJ of
Carthage and she has only been paying Carthage Fire District tax. Ms. Kelly was
under the impression that the property was already in the Town limits, and
would like to go through the formal process, so that everything will match.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board approved the resolution directing the clerk to investigate the
sufficiency of the petition submitted for ANX-01-19. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Board accepted the Clerk’s Certificate of Sufficiency and investigation for
ANX-01-19. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance
and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board set the public hearing for ANX-
01-19 for the January regular meeting, 2020. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Dutton explained that several months ago, the Board approved adding
“Conditional Zoning” to our Development Ordinances. Because of this addition,
there is no need to keep the section called “Conditional Use District” in our
ordinances. The Planning Board has already made the recommendation to approve
the amendment that deletes Conditional Use District from the ordinances. After
a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem, the Board
set the public hearing for January 21, 2020, to discuss the Conditional Use
District amendment as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Dutton stated that there were two seats expiring on the Historical
Preservation Commission. Lillie Mae Barrett did not wish to seek reappointment,
because she wants to focus on the museum. Bert Patrick asked to be reappointed.
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber,
the Board reappointed Bert Patrick to the Historical Preservation Commissioner
for a term set to expire December 2023. Ms. Dutton also mentioned that each
Board member can serve one elected and one appointed position. Commissioner Dan
Bonillo could remain on the HPC. If there arose a situation where the Board of
Adjustment was hearing an appeal from an HPC decision, he might have to recuse
himself as a conflict of interest. Commissioner Nance could start serving on
the Historical Committee, if he would like.
Commissioner Phillips and Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy have been the designated
check signers for the administration office. The Town needs another
Commissioner/Mayor to serve in that capacity. Commissioner Bonillo volunteered
to be the other signer, but withdrew his offer once he discovered the time
commitment. After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem, Mayor Chalflinch was nominated to act as the other designated check
signer. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI. OLD BUSINESS: None
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
    A. Ms. Dutton summarized the Planning Board minutes from the November 2019
meeting.     
    B. Ms. Dutton gave the Town committee reports. The Appearance Committee met
to decorate the Christmas trees the Monday before Thanksgiving. The Historical
Committee is hoping to start having special collections. The first one is
tentatively planned for February, 2020, for Black History Month.
XIII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS: 
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked for Brandon Emory to attend the next meeting.
Commissioner Nance commented on what a great time he had at the parade. He
learned the hard way to use the candy sparingly, as to save    some for the end
of the parade. Mayor Chalflinch said that the Christmas lights look great and
   the parade was a great time. He thanked the audience for trusting him to
serve as the Mayor and he looks forward to working with everyone.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
XV. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy    the Board
meeting was adjourned at 7:33 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
   
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
2020 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 29, 2020 SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
JANUARY 29, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Moore County Board of
Commissioners held a Special joint meeting on Wednesday, January 29, 2020 at 6:
30 p.m. at the Moore County Agricultural Center.
Present from the Town were Mayor Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Dustin Smith, Commissioner Christopher Nance and Commissioner Al
Barber. Commissioner Dan Bonillo was deployed. Town staff present were Town
Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Present from the County were Board Chairman Frank Quis, Vice Chair Catherine
Graham, Commissioner Louis Gregory, Commissioner Otis Ritter and Commissioner
Jerry Daeke. County staff present includes County Clerk Laura Williams, County
Attorney Misty Leland, Capital Projects Manager Rich Smith, Town Manager Wayne
Vest and County Asst Manager Janet Parris. Also present were Jason Hopkins from
Moseley Architects and Tucker McKenzie from Wetherill Engineering, Brittany
Chase from Exult and a couple of local citizens.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
County Commissioner Frank Quis called the County Board meeting to order at 6:
33p.m. Subsequently, Mayor Chalflinch called the Town Board meeting to order
and they both thanked everyone for meeting. Mayor Chalflinch introduced the
Carthage Board of Commissioners and Town Staff.
II. INVOCATION:
County Manager Wayne Vest gave the opening invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Town Manager Tom Robinson led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance.             
IV. BUSINESS:
   1. Mr. Wayne Vest reviewed the minutes from the last joint special meeting
on August 8, 2019.
   2. Mr. Jason Hopkins reviewed the proposed courthouse project and the two
options that are being discussed. The first would be to build the courthouse in
the existing parking lot footprint. This option would limit the size of the
lobby/staging area which also limits the safety features that could be
implemented. Also, by building it in the existing footprint, the existing sally
port would be made unusable. The foundation system would also have to be
specially engineered and would require more funding. The second option would be
to close one or both lanes of Dowd Street, allowing the larger lobby to be
constructed and maintaining the existing sally port. This option would close
one of the streets in Carthage, but the County would construct a courtyard for
the public to use. Traffic would be redirected around using Saunders, Ray and
McNeill streets. At the last meeting, the Town Board asked for a traffic impact
analysis to be completed.
   It was at this time, that Brittany Chase addressed the Boards to explain the
Traffic Impact Analysis that was completed. She explained that even considering
the proposed growth of the area, the study indicates that the change in traffic
pattern would not create any significant issues with the flow of traffic. They
also considered the movement of large model trucks that might be hauling logs
or livestock. The only time that the new traffic pattern was a concern was when
two larger trucks were trying to turn towards each other at an intersection.
Rich Smith stated that they already have to pass through one and a time, so
that wouldn’t change. Brandon Jones and Matthew Kitchen with the NCDOT agreed
with the interpretation of the TIA.
   Town Commissioner Dowdy asked how many parking spots would the Town be
losing around the existing sidewalk areas and Ms. Chase stated that
approximately 5 or 6 spaces would be lost with the redirection of traffic.
Commissioner Smith said that Carthage has a limited budget for road maintenance
and redirecting the traffic, will push the traffic onto Town roads instead of
State roads. He is concerned that over time, the larger weights on the Town
roads will cause more damage and create a greater need for road maintenance on
the Town’s budget. Mr. Vest said that the County is limited by what the County
can contribute to, when it comes to road maintenance, but they would try to
find a way to help, if needed. Mr. Vest explained that the cost of the two
options are about the same because of the engineered foundation that would be
required. Commissioner Smith asked if the resident in the audience was allowed
to speak, since he lives on Dowd Road. Mr. James Davis addressed both boards
and said that he did not have a problem closing that section of Dowd Road. He
doesn’t think it will have too much impact on the way people get around.
   At that time, the Commissioners agreed to host a Special Joint Public
Hearing to make the public aware of the proposed project and the options for
traffic. The Boards agreed to set the hearing for Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at
5:30 p.m. in the County Agricultural Center. The County and Town Clerk would
work together to develop a notice that could be posted and they would find
other avenues of advertising the hearing.
V. ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made and approved by the County Commissioners, Mayor Chalflinch
adjourned the Town Board meeting at 7:52 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
FEBRUARY 11, 2020 SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
FEBRUARY 11, 2020
5:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners and the Moore County Board of
Commissioners held a Special joint meeting on Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at 6:
30 p.m. at the Moore County Agricultural Center.
Present from the Town were Mayor Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dustin Smith, and Commissioner Al
Barber arrived just after 6:00 p.m. Commissioner Dan Bonillo was deployed. Town
staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, and
Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Present from the County were Board Chairman Frank Quis, Vice Chair Catherine
Graham, Commissioner Louis Gregory, Commissioner Otis Ritter and Commissioner
Jerry Daeke. County staff present includes County Clerk Laura Williams, County
Attorney Misty Leland, Capital Projects Manager Rich Smith, Town Manager Wayne
Vest and County Asst Manager Janet Parris. Also present were Jason Hopkins from
Moseley Architects and Tucker McKenzie from Wetherill Engineering, and Brittany
Chase from Exult. There were many local residents in attendance including
Roland Gilliam, Nancy McKenzie, Bert Patrick, Nancy Secura, Joanna King,
Dolores Bonillo and James Davis. The materials regarding the proposed
courthouse and road closure were made available beginning at 4:30 p.m.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
County Commissioner Frank Quis called the County Board meeting to order at 5:
34p.m. Subsequently, Mayor Chalflinch called the Town Board meeting to order
and they both thanked everyone for meeting. Chairman Quis introduced the County
Board of Commissioners and staff. Mayor Chalflinch introduced the Carthage
Board of Commissioners and Town Staff. County Manager Wayne Vest introduced all
of the representatives from NCDOT, Mosely Architects and Exult Engineers.
II. INVOCATION:
County Manager Wayne Vest gave the opening invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Town Manager Tom Robinson led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance.             
IV. BUSINESS:
   1. Mr. Wayne Vest reviewed the minutes from the last joint special meetings
on August 8, 2019 and January 29, 2020. He also provided a recap of the project
and reflected how the Town and County are like Siamese twins. Mr. Vest
suggested there are just two options for Dowd Road: leave it open or close it.
The primary impact of not closing the road would be the reduction of the entry/
lobby area. The increased staging area would help with public safety concerns
and prepare for possible growth. Mr. Vest also stated that closing Dowd Road
would eliminate a pedestrian-vehicle conflict point. The County is committed to
a robust signage and informational campaign with either option, but feels that
closing Dowd Street provides the best outcome for the Town and County. The
County is also prepared to offer a half a million dollars towards improvements
at Carthage Elementary School and also more improvements at Hillcrest Park,
which is in the Town limits.
   2. Mayor Chalflinch asked Matthew Kitchen from NCDOT to speak a bit about
his analysis of the traffic impact analysis that was completed. Mr. Kitchens
explained that reading this particular TIA was fairly easy and said that the
level of service would not be changing very much once the road is closed. In
some instances the level of service would decrease from excellent to very good.
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy mentioned that the County had requested to close
Dowd Street back in 1975, but it was never done. Mr. Kitchen stated that he was
unsure of the reason. At this time, those signed up to speak were selected from
the sign in sheet.
   3. Roland Gilliam, a resident of Carthage for about 40 years, addressed the
Board. He said that he is the owner of the airport, RV Park, Pik n’Pig building
and other Town properties. He said that several hundred cars use Dowd on a
daily basis. His main concern is the ability for larger vehicles (RV’s and
trucks) to turn at intersections downtown. He said that there is already a
problem at some intersections and either larger vehicles or cars have to wait
until the truck turns to proceed at an intersection. Roland suggested that a
new road be constructed behind the Rick Rhyne Public Safety Building that would
allow traffic to flow between Dowd and McNeill Streets. Tom Robinson mentioned
that he had also considered this roadway, but hadn’t brought it up because the
TIA was favorable. Commissioner Graham asked if the Town would be willing to
table this suggestion to see if the closure created a need.
   4. Bert Patrick addressed the two Boards next. She is a long-time resident
of Carthage. Carthage has been the County seat for 224 years. But in the last
fifty years or so, the residents of Carthage have not felt very, “loved” by the
County. No consideration has been made for what is good for Carthage, only what
the County wants or needs. Mrs. Patrick said that the relationship is not built
on reciprocity and has become toxic to the Town. She said that Carthage is more
than the 600 people a day that come to Carthage to work or eat in our
restaurants. She asked for confirmation in writing that the new parking lot
where Fred’s was located, will remain public parking. And the County Board of
Commissioners should be more supportive of the Town and not make derogatory
statements about our water quality. As a member of the First Baptist Church,
she has no other option than to support the closing of Dowd, to avoid a huge
wall being constructed behind the church. Mr. Vest said that the parking lot
would remain public and that the County will landscape it so that it looks nice
for everyone, including park benches.
   5. Nancy McKenzie was asked to come to the podium next. She said that she
has lived in Carthage for over 70 years. Her parents and grandparents grew up
in Carthage. Many people that she has spoken to about the potential closing of
Dowd Street, were concerned about the parking that would be lost near the post
office and the library downtown. There is already limited parking at both
locations and we should be concerned with the elderly and children getting to
and from those buildings. She suggests installing a stop light at the
intersection of Ray and NC 24/27 Hwy. Ms. McKenzie was also concerned that the
Town would outgrow this courthouse and struggle to find space for another
expansion later. Mr. Vest stated that the County would probably demolish the
Central Services building and build more parking in that area. Mosely
Architects responded saying that the courthouse has been designed to last at
least 30-35 years. Often times, courthouses are built up, not out. Mr. Vest
also stated that the Currie Building will be used for other county offices
including IT, Finance, GIS and possibly child support.
   6. James Davis, a resident of Dowd Street asked how the construction will
affect traffic. He said that he does not have any issues with the closing and
that it might reduce the number of accidents at the intersection or Dowd and
Courthouse. It was mentioned that construction materials and debris have not
been assigned a particular place yet. But they might stage some materials
behind the Register of Deeds office. Dolores Bonillo asked if crosswalks were
going to be installed to help people move from the parking lot to their
intended location. A brief recess was held.
   7. After the break, a few others in attendance spoke or asked questions. Mr.
Vest stated to the public that the proposed courthouse is being mandated by the
state, so it must be done. Commissioner Smith stated that he wanted to make
sure there is adequate parking during the construction.
V. ADJOURNMENT: 
After a motion made and approved by the County Commissioners, Mayor Chalflinch
adjourned the Town Board meeting at 7:23 p.m. A motion to adjourn was made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
 
_______________________________         ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
 
FEBRUARY 17, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 17, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, February 17, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, and Public Services Director Allen Smith. Mark Lacey with LKC
Engineering was in attendance. Representing the County of Moore was Wayne Vest,
Rich Smith, Frank Quis and Catherine Graham. Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot was
present. Bert Patrick, Nancy McKenzie, Kim Livengood and several other Carthage
residents also attended.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Christopher Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Bert Patrick thanked the Board for being so diligent with the request to close
Dowd Street. She wanted to also thank the County for working to establish a
more positive relationship with the Town and said that she thinks the residents
of Carthage will agree with the closure once they see the good that    will
come of it.
Kim Livengood thanked the Board for their hard work and stated that she has
been contacted by my citizens who are opposed to the closing of Dowd Street.
She was concerned that adding stop lights would create congestion in Carthage
and wondered if the proposed development in Carthage was considered during the
traffic study. She concluded by asking the Board not to make any rash decisions
that cannot be undone.
 VI. EMPLOYEE SERVICE RECOGNITION:
Kesha Matthews presented Police Chief Bart Davis with a clock to acknowledge
his twenty years of service to the Town. He said that he is grateful for the
opportunity to serve and looks forward to another twenty years.
 VIII. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Dan Bonillo. All ayes. Motion
carried.
      A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting January 21,
2020
      B. Minutes from the Closed Session Meeting January 21, 2020
      C. Minutes from the Special Board of Commissioners Joint Meeting January
29, 2020
      D. Minutes from the Special Joint Public Hearing February 11, 2020
      E. Budget Amendment #26
      F. Amended agenda as presented.
IX. PUBLIC HEARINGS
      A. Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:43 p.m. to discuss the
proposed USDA sewer project. Mr. Robinson stated that the Town has run out of
practical sewer capacity unless we have a new 16” sewer line installed down US
15-501 Hwy just past the traffic circle. The project is approximately $6.4
million dollars. The Town is expecting to hear back from USDA in 30-60 days. No
one from the public had any questions. Mayor Chalflinch closed the public
hearing at 6:45 p.m. No Board action was required.       
      B. Ms. Dutton stated that there had been (4) other public hearings
scheduled for that evening. The Planning Board was not able to meet at their
regular time because of the storm conditions that Thursday. Ms. Dutton asked
the Board to reschedule the (4) hearings for the March meeting. After a motion
made by Commissioner Nance and    seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the (4)
public hearings to discuss housing types,    planning board structure,
conditional zoning and the dimensional table were rescheduled for the regular
meeting on March 16, 2020. All ayes. Motion carried.
X. MANAGER’S REPORT
      A. It appears that another group has signed a contract for the Little
River property. A meeting is scheduled with the new group on Tuesday, February
18 at 9:30 a.m.
      Recently at a meeting with the Moore County Public Works department, the
county said     that they were unsure that the County wastewater system could
handle the amount of wastewater that we would send for processing with our new
proposed sewer line. Mark    Lacey with LKC Engineering is working with County
staff to run the appropriate models needed to verify.
      The sidewalk construction on Rockingham Street has started.
Unfortunately, the project    was too small to receive grant funding. Mr.
Robinson suggests that once construction is complete, the Town invite former
commissioner Artie Barber to help dedicate it.
      The Town Manager and department heads have been working on budget
preparations.
      We recently discovered that as part of the proposed USDA grant/loan, the
Town would    be able to purchase a larger camera system for detecting I & I in
our lines. Hopefully, once the Town has the new camera, we would be able to
hire one more full time public works employee. This person would help cut grass
during the warmer months and help operate the camera when it is cooler.
      The apartment complex hearing was postponed again. Each time it is
postponed, the Town is assessed more legal fees.
      Mr. Robinson said that another big project is interested in coming to
Carthage, and while it is confidential right now, it will be very good for
Carthage. Also, updating the Land Use Plan is most important during this time
of so much growth. All department reports were included in the Manager’s
Report.
XI. OLD BUSINESS
      A. The Pinehurst paving project could be split into two sections to help
with payment. The majority of Pinehurst Avenue is traversed by the County
primarily. The County is not able to assist the Town with paying for the
paving, but it is possible to enter into an Interlocal agreement for certain
conditions. One example would be for the County to purchase the parking lot
that they use downtown Carthage that belongs to the Town. If they purchased it
for $100,000, which would be half of the paving cost, even though it is much
more than what the property is worth. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy stated that
although Pinehurst Avenue isn’t necessarily tied into the Dowd Street closing
request, it would show the willingness for the County to work with the Town.
Commissioner Bonillo said that he did not think it was in the Town’s best
interest to sell any more property.
      B. Mayor Chalflinch asked it to go on the record that he is in support of
closing Dowd Road. He believes that in a few years, it won’t make much
difference to those living here. It would be closed for at least two years
during construction anyway. Mr. Robinson said that he feels like the mezzanine
will be a nice addition to the Town. The level of service is only slightly
affected, even with the proposed increased population. Mr. Robinson suggests
entering into an agreement with the County before closing the road. County
Manager Wayne Vest thanked the Town Board for meeting with the County. And
County Board Chair Frank Quis stated that the County wants to be good partners.
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy said that the past history with the County has
clouded his perspective on this project. The County has made an effort to do
right by Carthage. He believes that traffic control devices should be installed
to help keep the elderly and children safer. Commissioner Smith said that he
has lived in Carthage his whole life. He is upset that the County purchased the
Fred’s parking lot and the Town has lost the tax revenue now. He wonders how it
benefits the Town to close that block of Dowd. Commissioner Nance said that he
hasn’t heard anything from the Court staff or Clerks. Mr. Robinson said that
there are real issues with the courthouse that is in use currently and the
proposed courthouse is state mandated.
      County Manager Wayne Vest stated that closing the street eliminates a
vehicle-pedestrian conflict point. The closing allows the lobby area to be
larger which helps with screening people entering the courthouse. The existing
sally port can be used.
      Commissioner Nance stated again that at a minimum, he would like to have
a formal agreement for public parking and the connector road behind the Rick
Rhyne Center before he would consider closing the road.
      County Commissioner Catherine Graham asked for a preliminary count of
supporters on the Town Board, if an agreement was developed. Commissioner
Nance, Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, Commissioner Smith and Commissioner Barber all
agreed that they would consider closing the road as long as the conditions were
met. Commissioner Bonillo said that he still would not feel comfortable closing
the road.
      Ms. Graham went further by stating that the courthouse is mandated by the
state. She wants to do what is best for the Town and the County. The courthouse
is used by everyone, but just criminals. And she assured the Town Board that
the new parking lot where Fred’s is located, would look nice for everyone. The
County Board and staff present, left the meeting at this time.
 XI. NEW BUSINESS
      A.  Ms. Dutton stated that the 2020 Carthage Buggy Festival is scheduled
for May 9, 2020. We are still accepting vendor applications. Ms. Dutton asked
the Board to consider the road closure ordinance for the Buggy Festival that is
done every year. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by
Commissioner Smith, the Board approved the Ordinance of Road Closure for the
Carthage Buggy Festival, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
      B. The Town, as mentioned earlier, is finishing up the requirements for
the USDA grant/loan application process. One formality is Contract for Legal
Services approval. The Town wishes to contract with the Brough Law Firm for
this process. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, the Board     approved the Resolution to Approve the
Legal Services Contract with the Brough Law Firm and contract, as presented.
All ayes. Motion carried.
      C. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy, the Board authorized the Town Manager to advertise the Request for
Proposals for a Wayfaring Sign plan. All ayes. Motion carried. 
      D. Allen Smith explained the damage at the ball field as a result of a
storm drain being washed out. If we are able to purchase and install a pre-cast
storm drain box, the design does not have to be engineered. But the area might
be too big to use a pre-cast box. There are also big trees on a ridge close by
that might have caused some of the damage. The trees will be removed, too.
Commissioner Smith said that he went to look at the hole and it is much bigger
than he expected. He said that a regular fence needs to be installed around the
hole to keep children from falling in.
      E. There are three police vehicles that the Police Department would like
to list as surplus so that they can be sold. All three of the vehicles are Ford
Taurus’s. Mr. Robinson also stated that there will other vehicles that will
become surplus and the Town should keep one of the vehicles for staff to use.
Especially if we might do more Code Enforcement in house. After a motion made
by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board agreed to
classify the (3) Ford Taurus’s as surplus. All ayes. Motion carried.   .
XIII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
None
XIV. OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS-
Commissioner Bonillo said that he is looking forward to the retreat scheduled
for March 7, 2020. He would like to see a list of the Town’s assets.
Commissioner Smith asked if part time employees could be given the privilege of
renting our buildings at no cost. He also questioned the methods that Code
Enforcement uses. He recommends that someone from the Town or Code Enforcement
stop and speak to the property owner before sending certified letters. Mayor
Pro-tem said that some people don’t take things seriously unless they receive a
certified letter and that the Town also has to follow certain steps to comply
with the law. Both the Town Manager and Town Clerk stated that Alliance Code
Enforcement does make every effort to contact the property owner in person or
by phone before the certified letters are mailed.
XV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Barber gave the closing prayer.
XVI.   CLOSED SESSION-
Mayor Chalflinch closed the regular meeting at 8:16 p.m. and announced that the
Board would be meeting in Closed Session per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11. Everyone left
the building except for the Board, Town Manager and Town Clerk. The Closed
Session began at 8:23 p.m.
XVI.   ADJOURNMENT:
The closed session was closed at 8:45 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner
Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the meeting was adjourned at 8:46
p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
______________________________________      _______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk            Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
MARCH 7, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL PLANNING/BUDGET MEETING
MARCH 7, 2020
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Planning/Budget
Meeting on Saturday, March 7, 2020 at 8:00 a.m. at the Town of Carthage Fire
Department.
In attendance was Mayor Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dustin Smith, Commissioner Dan Bonillo and
Commissioner Al Barber. Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town
Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Public Works Director Allen Smith, Police Chief Bart
Davis and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the Board meeting to order at 8:02 a.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting.
II. INVOCATION: Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the opening invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Al Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance.          
IV. OVERVIEW:
The Town Manager gave an overview of the retreat. The meeting would begin with
the State of the Town Report, a review of the financial statements and a
capital improvements listing. After those items, each department head would
address the Board and give a presentation for the upcoming year and any changes
they would like to make. Finally, the Board can review a list of priorities
from the 2018-2019 year and also a new list proposed by the Town Manager.
V.TOWN REPORTS AND INFORMATION:
Tom Robinson began reviewing the State of the Town report. There are currently
24 full time staff and 13 part time. For the past two years, no new staff has
been added. Carthage has a steady increase in population and we have a moderate
tax rate compared with the rest of the municipalities in the County. Currently,
one penny equates to about $24,000 of tax revenue. The tax rate was raised last
year by one penny to make up for a lost cell tower lease. During County tax
valuation years, the tax revenue typically increases. For years, the water and
sewer fund balance was decreasing because the filters in the plant were having
to be replaced too frequently. We also had to pay for the sewer line down NC 22
and a 12” line was installed going down to Union Pines. Ideally, there should
be a minimum of 50-70% general fund balance.
The general fund was used for the down payment of the fire engine. In addition,
because of the excessive rainfall in 2018 & 2019, the inflow & infiltration has
caused an increase in wastewater processing.
The water and sewer revenues have fluctuated some over the last few years. It
might be due to subdivisions being started and then later at full build-out.
Mr. Robinson expressed concern about the utility rates, but was hoping that
when more development comes to Carthage, the Town can consider lowering the
rates. Mr. Robinson mentioned that the changes in the water and sewer fund are
due to the increase in rates and now because of the high inflow and
infiltration in our system.
So far, the Town is 71% through our Budget year and the Town is looking good so
far. The surplus revenue might go down this year because of some projects that
have been completed, like the sidewalk on Rockingham Street. Mr. Robinson and
Kesha Matthews invited the Board to request a copy of the monthly expenditure
report anytime they would like.
The Town owes one more payment for the Buggy Building and two more payments
towards the new roof for the building. Mr. Robinson announced that someone had
been selected to fill the vacant position and a formal offer would be made
later that day.
VI. DEPARTMENT HEAD PRESENTATIONS:
A. Fire Chief Brian Tyner addressed the Board first. He mentioned that they are
in possession of a 1996 Econoline ambulance that they would like to surplus.
The van is not used often at all and is only sometimes used as a Quick Response
Vehicle. Tom Robinson briefly touched on the County changing the funding
formula so that the County and the Town each cover 50% of the expenses for the
Fire Department. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved to surplus the 1996 Econoline
ambulance as presented. All ayes.
Chief Tyner requested that a couple of line items be increased. He would like
an increase for maintenance and uniforms. Also, he mentioned that in 2025, the
VIPER radio system will no longer work. He wants to budget a little bit each
year, so it won’t be so much to swallow at one time. Chief Tyner also is asking
for two more full time positions so that they can have better coverage,
especially on the weekend. Mr. Robinson said that is the planned subdivisions
start up, the tax base would start increasing. Commissioner Smith stated that
he would support hiring one full time person to provide weekend coverage.
B. Police Chief Bart Davis spoke to the Board next, about his budget requests
for the upcoming year. He requested a total increase of $3500 to supplement
contractor’s services, training travel and maintenance and repairs.
Commissioner Bonillo asked what kinds of training the officers might have to
travel for and Chief Davis gave the example of rapid response training. Chief
Davis also mentioned that there are two vehicles that are about to be
considered surplus. He stated that the PD would like to keep one of the
vehicles to use for training travel and the other one would be the vehicle for
administrative staff to use. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy asked about the PD
Incentive program and officer ranks. Tom Robinson said that it used to be hard
to retain officers with the Carthage PD. Now, the pay is more competitive and
the incentive program makes employment more attractive. Commissioner Smith was
in support of the career development program.
C. Allen Smith, the Public Works Director spoke to the Board. The first item up
for discussion was the purchase of (10) automatic flushers that would help
improve water quality in dead-end areas. The cost is $30,000. Mr. Robinson said
that he was hoping that they would be able to secure a grant to pay for them,
but it might take quite a while to receive grant funding. Tommy Overby with the
State, suggested that the Town offer free water to the schools for irrigation.
That might help improve water circulation. Town staff is still considering
installing Automatic Meter Infrastructure. Staff will bring the item back for
Board consideration during this next budget cycle.
Mr. Smith said that the department needs to replace a mowing tractor because it
is too small for what they need. He is requesting an air conditioned 90hp mower
with a flex wing bush hog. The department also needs to replace the cemetery
mower. A small has to be used because the larger mower won’t fit through the
gravesites.
A high resolution camera is being added to the USDA grant application.
Eventually, the part time summer position could roll into a full time position
because of being able to use the camera during the colder months. The camera
will allow a greater value with repairs that we make to our system. Mr. Smith
and Mr. Robinson asked for more money in the paving and sidewalk budget. Town
crew have taken up doing many of the repairs, but it is cheaper to rent a
roller than to purchase one. Allen is getting quotes to replace the storm drain
at the ballfield. Mr. Robinson said that he hoped we would have an estimate by
the next meeting. The Town is also looking at repairing the lights and adding
cameras for security.
Allen Smith mentioned to the Board that the 1998 Dodge truck needs to be
replaced soon. Over the last two years it has cost the Town $5000 in repairs.
Commissioner Bonillo asked if the Public Services Department has any kind of
career progression program. Allen said that everyone is allowed to take a
Pesticide class, but because the department is not compartmentalized, it is
hard to arrange training for everyone. Mr. Robinson said that length of service
is also considered.
Finally, Mr. Smith mentioned to the Board that the Town needs to start
enforcing the grease trap and RPZ ordinances. There is a strict time limit to
comply with the grease trap ordinance, but because of the expense, we should
give them more time. Allen and his staff will start investigating to see which
businesses are in compliance with the ordinances.
VII. CHALLENGES/ISSUES/OPPORTUNITIES:
The Town Manager quickly reviewed the priority list from the FY18-19 and gave
the status of each project. He has composted a new list of project ideas and
urgencies for the Board to consider. Tom Robinson asked the Board to rate each
item and also list any other ideas that they might have and return it to Dorrie
so that she can tally everything and it can be reported at the next meeting.
There was some discussion about Carthage Elementary School. Commissioner
Bonillo stated that a promise to rebuild the school would go a long way in
easing his mind about the closing of Dowd Street. In addition, staff computer
upgrades are needed, a full time Planner position and a new Land Use Plan. Mr.
Robinson said that the Board should start thinking about hiring a full time
manager, but he would like to stay and contribute to the Town for several of
the larger projects that are ongoing.
There was discussion about some of the ongoing projects like the Little River
Development and the proposed Auto-condos. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy suggested that
the full time Planner position be moved up to higher on the list.
Then Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy started discussing how the Board works. No
Commissioner, nor the Mayor, has any real power unless the members of the Board
work together. And reminded the Board that speaking to Tom every day about the
same topics won’t make things happen any faster. Commissioner Smith said that
he knows that he asks a lot of questions. But he is serving because he wants
the Town to run efficiently, effectively and provide good services to the
public. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that Commissioner Smith is an asset to the
Town. He is younger and asks important questions. He just advised the newer
Commissioners to learn more about the limitations of their power.
Commissioner Bonillo said that he had learned a lot during this meeting and
would like to hold special quarterly meetings to discuss topics without having
to vote or make decisions. Mr. Robinson mentioned eventually setting up a pre-
agenda meeting for everyone. But for now, he and the Clerk meet with the Mayor
and Mayor Pro-tem the morning before the meeting to review the agenda items.
Ms. Dutton mentioned to the Board that they need to nominate or select a
representative for the Triangle J Council of Governments. Mayor Chalflinch said
that he would consider it.
VIII. CLOSING:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy gave the closing prayer. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the meeting was
adjourned at 12:03 p.m.
_______________________________ ________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
MARCH 16, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 16, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, March 16, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner, Public Services Director Allen Smith, and Town Planner Kathy Liles.
Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot attended and two concerned citizen s.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dan Bonillo gave the inv ocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dustin Smith led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Bonillo, the Board approved the revised agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy . All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting February 17, 2020
Minutes from the Special Board of Commissioners Meeting March 7, 2020
Budget Amendment #31
PUBLIC HEARINGS
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:32 p.m. to discuss the proposed
amendment to the Development Ordinance that redefines how the Planning Board is
structured. The Town Code of Ordinances and the Development Ordinances had
different information about how many total members could serve. The public
hearing was closed at 6:33 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board of Commissioners approved the
Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency as it pertains to the Planning
Board structure. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Barber and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board of Commissioners
approved the amendment to the Development Ordinances that allows up to seven
(7) Planning Board members; five of those members must reside in the Town
limits and two (2) can reside in the ETJ. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:33 p.m. to discuss the proposed
change to the dimensional table. Ms. Dutton explained that part of the newly
state adopted 160D, municipalities no longer have the authority to require a
minimum heated square footage for residential uses. This amendment just removes
that row from the Table of Uses. The public hearing was closed at 6:34 p.m.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board adopted the Resolution in Support of the Land Use Consistency
Statement as it pertains to the changes to the dimensional table. All ayes.
Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Board approved the amendment to the dimensional table
as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:35 p.m. to discuss the
amendment
that would add "CZ-Conditional Zoning" to the table of uses. Conditional Zoning
has to
be listed as under Section 100.56 "Meaning of Entries," before it can actually
be used in the table . The state, under 160D, is requesting that zoning
jurisdictions around the state all use the same categories in their ordinances,
so that is more easily understood. Ms.
Kathy Liles explained the difference between Conditional Use Permits and
Conditional Zoning to the Board. The public hearing was closed at 6:36 p.m.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Smith,
the Board adopted the Resolution in Support of La.nd Use Consistency as it
pertains to Conditional Zoning being added to Section 100.56. All ayes. Motion
carried. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the amendment adding "Conditional
Zoning, " to Section 100.56 of the Development Ordinances, as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:37 p.m. to discuss the proposed
housing-types amendment. Kathy Liles explained that recent project discussions
have brought to light the need to update the definitions and also the
"Residential Uses" in the Table of Uses. The definitions are being shifted to
match the building code definitions and "Single Family Attached" is being
added. Ms. Dutton added that the Planning Board has started looking at all of
the residential uses and will be making suggestions to the Table of Uses and
the districts where they think each use is most compatible. The public hearing
was closed at 6:38 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded
by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of La.nd
Use Consistency as it pertains to housing types. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Ma yor Pro-tem Dowdy,
the Board approved the amendment for housing-types and Residential Uses in the
Table, as prese nted. All ayes. Motion carried.
MANAGER'S REPORT
The first meeting with the Moore County Schools Superintendent, Dr. Grimesey,
the Mayor and Mayor Pro-tern, was successful. With the Board ' s blessing,
another meeting will be scheduled to include a couple of representative s from
the County Board of Commissioners, the Town Board and more school
representative s. The Century Committee has even formed a subcommittee to help
support the efforts to ha ve the elementary school be rebuilt in the existing
location. The Board agreed to proceed.
Mr. Robinson stated that an employment offer was made to Kimberly Gibson of
Carthage, and she has accepted the Customer Service Specialist position. She
will start on March 30, 2020. She has great customer service skills, writing
skills and some accounting skills. The Board will be introduced at the April
meeting.
Later on the agenda are two financial items. The first is the purchase of the
(10) auto­ flushers. At the budget meeting in March, the Board was curious
about grant opportunities for the purchase, but it looks like grant funding is
at least a year away. Mr. Robinson would like to allocate the funds right away,
so that they can be purchased. They will certainly help with water in some
areas. Another financial item is the purchase of the tractor and bush hog. We
need to purchase the equipment so that it will be ready to use soon . The
equipment will be financed for no longer than three years. Mr. Robinson also
confirmed that Code Enforcement has active cases for the two properties on
Martin Street that were identified as being in violation. He also mentioned
that the Riley's are working to lower the fence height so that it is in
compliance with our ordinances.
The baseball field storm drain is still in need of repairs. Commissioner Smith
provided an estimate for repairing it, but other estimates are being obtained.
Because of the cost of the project, Commissioner Smith is probably ineligible
to do the work because it is over the li mit. Mr. Allen Smith explained that
NCDOT does not have to be involved with the project, so it will be more
affordable. No budget amendments are required.
OLD BUSINESS
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy,
the Board approved the budget amendment to purchase the ( JO) automatic
flushers . All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Dutton mentioned again that they needed to select a TJCOG repre sentative.
Commissioner Nance has served as the alternate for a couple of years, but he is
not able to serve as the primary rep. The Mayor Pro-tern nominated Mayor Jimmy
Chalflinch. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Board approved Mayor Cha/flinch to serve as the Town
representative on the Triangle J Council of Governments. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Allen Smith and Tom Robinson explained the request for the large tractor and
bush hog. The newer equipment will free up (3) other employees to work on other
projects because it is much more efficient. After a motion made by Commissioner
Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved the purchase of
the new tractor and bush hog for an estimated cost of $90,000. All ayes. Motion
carried.
The Town Manger reviewed the list of priorities with the Board and the highest
scoring items. Carthage Elementary, Automatic Metering Infrastructure and Sewer
Improvements were rated the highest. They will be revisited at the next budget
meeting.
NEW BUSINESS
Tom Robinson said that he was interested in purchasing some lapel pins like he
has seen in other municipalities. The Town could purchase two different styles,
one with the Town seal and one with a buggy and the words, "Sweet Carthage ."
Harry Powell, one of the citizens in attendance, questioned why the pins would
only be available to a few people. He said that kind of behavior drives a wedge
between the residents and the government. He finished by saying that if his tax
dollars are going to be spent purchasing the pins, everyone should have the
ability to purchase one. Mr. Robinson stated that there was no hurry, and that
samples of the pins were being ordered for comparison.
Ms. Kathy Liles addressed the Board with a request from Habitat for Humanity.
They are currently looking for property in Carthage to build a home through the
Pinckney Pathways program. The first student-build was a bug success. Mayor
Pro-tern Dowdy said that he would hate for Habitat to keep asking us to donate
land and suggested that they pay tax value on the property . That way the Town
could recoup at least half the amount that the Town spent on the property.
Commissioner Smith agreed and Ms. Liles said that she would reach out to
Habitat and let them know the Board's request.
The County of Moore adopted a State of Emergency Declaration recently and Mr.
Robinson suggested that the Board consider approving one, too. Ms. Dutton read
aloud the proposed declaration. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the Town of Carthage State
of Emergency Declaration, as read. All ayes. Motion carried.
Tom Robinson, Mayor Chalflinch, and Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy met with
representatives from the County Board of Commissioners to review the draft
agreement for the closing of Dowd Street. Mr. Morphis reviewed the draft
document and has made a few changes. The lease of the Town's parking lot will
be handled as a separate matter . We are still waiting for the County to review
the proposed changes and contact Mr. Morphis. The recommendations made back to
the County were: 1.) The County will pay for all engineering, design and
implementation of the road between Dowd and S. McNeill Streets; 2.) The former
Fred's parking lot will be used as public parking with a guarantee of (10)
years; 3.) The County and the Town will split the cost of the wayfaring sign
plan and implementation; 4.) Crosswalks and signs will be researched and
installed based on recommendation from engineers and the Town; 5.) The County
Manager will keep the Town Manager informed with at least quarterly
communications and updates on the project. 6.) If a conflict arises, the two
parties agree to try to work out the differences first, then mediation and
legal action is the last resort.
Commissioner Smith said that he would like it on the record that he does not
agree with the agreement. He said that he does not think it is right for the
Town and the Town is getting so little in return. Commissioner Bonillo stated
that he realizes that not every wish or request can he tied to this agreement
and was most concerned about the Carthage Elementary School. The Town Manager
and Mayor Pro-tern said that every conversation that they have had with the
County Board members regarding the school, has indicated that they wish to
build it back in the same spot. Commissioner Bonillo said that the Town Board
approving the agreement is a show of good faith for the relationship between
the Town and County. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, the Board agreed to approve the agreement. Commissioners
Barber, Nance, and Bonillo and Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy all voted in favor of the
agreement. Commissioner Smith voted against it. Motion carried by majority.
Tom Robinson mentioned that the Town Clerk had been thinking about the fate of
the Buggy Festival this year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The government
is now suggesting no more than ten people grouped together at any given time.
And there is no guarantee that the coronavirus pandemic would be over by May.
If a decision isn't made soon, there will be money lost on reservations. In
addition, all of the vendors will prepare their goods for the festival, but it
will be a loss. Commissioner Smith suggested just cancelling the festival this
year, after all, the Town just approved a State of Emergency Declaration. Mayor
Pro-tern Dowdy said that if the NBA has cancelled their events, the Buggy
Festival probably should, too. Ms. Dutton agreed that it was probably for the
best and would notify the public the next day.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton gave a summary of the Planning Board meeting from March 5, 2020. The
Planning Board reviewed and made positive recommendations on all four zoning
amendments. In addition, they will start reviewing the Table of Uses and will
be able to make recommendations in the upcoming months.
The Appearance Committee met on Monday, March 9, 2020. They discussed the
flowers for the spring. Tom and Rebecca Prim have had trouble getting ahold of
Sharon Chriscoe with Possum Run Nursery. Ms. Dutton will attempt to contact her
and if necessary, Ashley Bibey and Nancy McKenzie will drive up to the nursery.
The Historical Committee met on Tuesday, March 10, 2020. They discussed the
special collections that they will have throughout the year. For the month of
March, they have a special women's exhibit. In June, an exhibit of flags will
be displayed. They also discussed the plans for the Buggy Festival.
Ms. Dutton reminded the Board that their Ethics training is scheduled for
Monday, March 23, 2020. She will let the Board know the location, but more than
likely, it will take place at the McDonald Building Board room, since there
might be other items to discuss, too. Dinner will be served.
Kathy Liles gave the Board an update on the Savannah Garden proposed park
project. Currently, she and Joanna King are working on grant applications. Ron
Jackson has agreed to give the Town a swath of property that the Town can use
as a park area and walking trail.
OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Smith said that he has another contractor who will provide an
estimate on the repairs for the storm drain. Commissioner Bonillo asked Allen
Smith to take a look at a drainage canal behind the Masonic Lodge. It is
overgrown and it starts filling up and flooding when there is a lot of rain.
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy asked Mr. Morphis to give his opinion on whether
Commissioners should or could be employed by the Town. Mr. Morphis stated that
Carthage has a Council-Manager form of government. A policy could be adopted
that would disallow any Commissioner from working for the Town. For the time
being, all day to day affairs and personnel issues would go before the Manager.
Sometimes even with the best of intentions, if Commissioners get too involved
with a department, it can
cause a bias and it can also the Department Head to be left out of the chain of
command. Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy asked the attorney if preventing a Commissioner
from working could be creating a conflict with his/her right to earn a living.
CLOSED SESSION
Mayor Chalflinch closed the regular meeting at 7:59 p.m. and announced that the
Board would be meeting in Closed Session per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11. Everyone left
the building except for the Board, Town Manager and Town Clerk and the
attorney, Mr. Morphis. The Closed Session began at 8:05 p.m.
ADJOURNMENT:
The closed session was closed at 9:18 p.m. Commissioner Barber offered the
Closing Prayer. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, the meeting was adjourned at 9:20 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
APRIL 20, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 20, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, April 20, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the Carthage Fire Department Meeting
Room. The meeting was made available via Zoom web conferencing, only the
essential staff and Board were present.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, and Public Services Director Allen Smith,
Kimberly Gibson, the new Customer Service Specialist was present. Police Chief
Bart Davis and Town Planner Kathy Liles were participating through Zoom.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Al Barber gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. INTRODUCTION:
Tom Robinson introduced Kimberly Gibson, the new Customer Service Specialist to
the Board. Kim expressed her gratitude for being a part of the Town and looked
forward to working with everyone.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the Board approved the revised agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Smith and seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting March 16, 2020
B. Minutes from the Closed Session March 16, 2020
C. Minutes from the Special Board of Commissioners Meeting March 26, 2020
C. Budget Amendment #33 & #34
VII. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
None
X. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Tom Robinson said that so far, the Town is adapting well to the extra
precautions dealing with the COVID-19 virus. Now, there are policies in place
that will aid the Town in making decisions having to do with the virus and
personnel. The Pinehurst Motor Club is the official name of the proposed
project in which a 332 acre tract would be annexed into the Town limits.
Multiple auto-condos would be constructed, a test track and some other
amenities. Mr. Robinson stated that the project would be a great addition to
the Town and to the County, but had some reservations about whether adjacent
property owners would be supportive. The group interested in Little River is
moving forward and should be closing on the property soon. They plan to build a
medical facility as their anchor. The applicant for the apartment complex,
William Guillet, has requested another quasi-judicial hearing. But Mr. Guillet
has agreed it’s in the best interest to postpone the hearing until the virus
has settled down. The Burger King project is moving forward, as they have
already demolished the old metal building that was there. They are in the
process of obtaining permits from the County Permitting and Inspections office.
Mr. Robinson requested that the Town Clerk send the Board the information
submitted for the Pinehurst Motor Club.
XI. OLD BUSINESS
A. Ms. Dutton reviewed the lapel pins with the Board. She passed some examples
around and Mr. Robinson reiterated that it was not a good idea to use the Town
Seal, if the pins would be available to the public. After some discussion, the
Board agreed on “Town of Carthage” and a buggy on the pins. The Board said that
they were willing to pay for their own pin. Ms. Dutton will price the pins with
their title and if there is not a big difference in cost, the Board will order
the special pins.
B. The discussion on the USDA Sewer Expansion Project was postponed until the
end of the meeting, with the hopes that Bill Lester would be able to join us by
teleconference.
XI. NEW BUSINESS
  A. Mr. Robinson explained that the Town’s budget would not be too involved
this year. A balanced budget has to be distributed to the Board by June 1st and
a budget has to be adopted by the end of July. He doesn’t anticipate a tax
increase this year, nor utility rate increases. Because we will have to hold a
Special Called Meeting on May 11, 2020, he recommended to the Board that they
set their budget workshop for the same evening. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board set a
Special Meeting/Budget Workshop for May 11, 2020 at 6:30 pm. All ayes. Motion
carried.
B. Tom Robinson mentioned that Kesha Matthews had been busy watching and
listening to COVID-19 conference calls over the last few weeks. Because of the
Families First COVID-19 Response Act, there is now a proposed Emergency Paid
Sick Leave policy, an expansion of the FMLA and a Return to Work Policy. After
a motion made by Commissioners Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton
Dowdy, the Board approved a Resolution in Support of the (3) personnel policies
in response to the COVID- 19 Response Act. All ayes. Motion carried. 
B. Public Works Director, Allen Smith addressed the Board and explained that it
seems the bulk water rates are much higher than in other municipalities.
Originally, the higher rates were put in place to protect our water resources.
He proposes that instead of us having the flush the lines so often and just
letting it run on the ground, we could lower our rates and sell more bulk water
from several locations. Allen Smith and Tom Robinson suggest that the rates be
reduced to the irrigation rates. There was more discussion between Commissioner
Smith, May Pro-tem Dowdy, Tom Robinson and Allen Smith. Finally Commissioner
Bonillo suggested that for the time being, lowering the rates to the irrigation
rates and then allowing the staff more time to research changing the bulk water
policies all together. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded
by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the reduction of the bulk water
rates and ordinance amending the fee schedule, as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C. Ms. Dutton explained the proposed NCDOT project on NC 22 Hwy in which the
culvert would be replaced near Nick’s Creek. As a result, NCDOT are requesting
to purchase two small right of way areas from the Town. One area is a total of
0.366 acres (Parcel 003) and the other area is 0.567 acres (Parcel 009). A
small percentage of the property will be given back to the Town once the
construction is complete. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of
Accepting NCDOT’s offer of the total $13, 500 for the two right-of-way areas,
as presented. All ayes Motion carried. The Town Manager is able to complete the
appropriate paperwork.
D. Ms. Dutton explained that it is time for the Board to approve the contract
for auditing services with S. Preston Douglas and Associates. Ms. Matthews also
stated that we initially signed a three-year contract and that the upcoming
year is the last year under that contract. After this year, the Board can
select a new auditing firm or sign a new contract with S. Preston Douglas and
Associates. They have done a very good job for the Town thus far. After a
motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
Board approved the contract for auditing services with S. Preston Douglas and
Associates, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A.  Kathy Liles spoke to the Board from her location. She explained that the
parks grant cycle was extended and that allows us more time to prepare the
application. The residents of Savannah’s Garden was very excited for
neighborhood park. The appraisal has been done and the park components have
been selected. The park will include a half-court basketball area, gazebo,
green trail loop, picnic tables, bridge and a playground. Because the parks
grant funding is done on a match-basis, the Town’s estimated contribution would
be about $60,000 over a three year period. The Board gave consensus to move
forward with the application process.
XIV. OLD BUSINESS, CONTINUED:
Tom Robinson said that Bill Lester would not be able to join us, so he would do
his best explaining the status of the USDA project. The Town’s application has
been submitted, but we need a letter from the County, that states they will
accept the wastewater from the new line. Randy Gould, the Director Public Works
for Moore County, doesn’t think that the Town has enough flows to require a 16”
line. He is suggesting that we install only a 12” line, but that size would
pressurize the line too much and would potentially cause other issues. Randy
Gould did offer that the Town can connect a 16” line farther South and connect
to the County’s 30” line. Mr. Robinson believes that the County’s decision
should be based on policy and not an engineer. Mr. Robinson suggested that the
County should add the improvements to the 30” line to their Capital
improvements Plan and not rely on the Town for the improvements. On a positive
note, USDA is favorable to increase the Town’s funding so that we can connect
the extra distance to the 30”. The connection would set Carthage up for growth
for the foreseeable future. Potentially, there will be more commercial growth
between McCaskill Road and NC 73 Hwy. Because of this proposed change to the
plan, the Town Board of Commissioner will have to make changes for USDA on May
11, 2020. Mr. Robinson has a meeting scheduled with Randy Gould and Wayne Vest
soon to discuss the project. Allen Smith stated that a 12” line would almost
send us backwards because new pumps and upgrades would be required in other
areas. Commissioner Bonillo said that a 12” sewer line would be phenomenal for
the Town, but that this is also a good opportunity for the County to be good
partners. Commissioner Nance asked to see a map of the project including the
new proposed area of connection. All of the Board agreed to proceed.
XIV. OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy has previously asked the Town Clerk to look into the Adopt
a Highway program. Participating in the program helps communities look better,
helps take some of the weight off the Public Works Department and really
creates a sense of community. He asked if the Board would be willing to spread
the word and/or would be willing to participate. Mr. Dowdy asked Ms. Dutton to
get some applications and also looking into the local representative coming to
a Board meeting to address the public.
Commissioner Bonillo said that he has received two complaints about water
quality. One issue was a resident of McReynolds Street complaining about storm
drains causing her property to flood. The other complaint was in regards to a
pump station on Brooklyn Street. Allen Smith stated that he had spoken to the
resident on Brooklyn Street already last year, but it sounded like they did not
install the valve that would help. He will investigate both complaints for more
information.
Commissioner Smith asked Mr. Robinson for more information about the budget
process.
XV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy offered the closing prayer.
XVI. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the meeting was adjourned at 8:11 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
______________________________________ _______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
MAY 11, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL PLANNING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 11, 2020
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting and Budget
Workshop on Monday, May 11, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. in the Fire Department meeting
room. The meeting was also available through the Zoom conferencing service.
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Al Barber, Commissioner Dustin
Smith and Commissioner Dan Bonillo. Present staff included the Town Manager Tom
Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public
Works Director Allen Smith, and Police Chief Bart Davis. Also present was Bill
Lester, representing LKC Engineering.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the Board meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dustin Smith gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE: Commissioner Dan Bonillo led everyone in the pledge of allegiance.
    
IV. OLD BUSINESS:
A. Tom Robinson explained the USDA paperwork to the Board. He thanked Bill
Lester for all of their hard work in helping the Town secure the loan and
grant. Bill Lester stated that the Town had to strike while the iron was hot;
before all of the USDA gets pulled together. The project includes upgrades to
our intermediary pump and a new force main south to the County’s 30” line. Mr.
Robinson read all of the key points from page 1 of the letter and offer from
USDA. The loan is for $1,703,000 and will be obligated first during the
process. The grant offer of $4,605,000 would be provided next. Typically, there
is an applicant contribution that is required, but the Town is not required to
pay anything up front. The interest rate on the loan is 1.375% for 40 years.
All funds should be settled and the project should be completed within three
(3) years.
Tom Robinson and Bill Lester both agreed that the Town would be better situated
if the project does connect a mile further south at the County’s 30” line. That
connection sets Carthage up for more growth, if needed and keeps us from
relying on other municipalities to share capacity. But the extension of the
line will have to be submitted as an amendment to the original application.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Approving the Funding for the
Sewer Capacity Improvements Project and all of the contracts, as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried.
B. The next item on the agenda is the FY20-21 Budget preparations. The decline
in the economy has made it difficult to get some of the figures together. A
one-page summary has been provided. So far, the General Fund is $55, 899 out of
balance. The main increases to the General Fund that are planed include: the
mandated increase to the retirement contributions, increased legal fees, a rate
increase with Republic Services, Administration travel funding, Fire Department
vehicle maintenance budget and the payment for the new fleet of police
vehicles. No tax increase is anticipated. If the economy allows, a 2% cost of
living pay increase could be implemented in January 2021. Other considerations
are the Land Use Plan and computer upgrades.
The employer retirement contributions also affect the Water and Sewer Funds,
too. Once the Property & Liability Insurance and Workers’ Comp Insurance
figures come in, they will also be included. Commissioner Bonillo asked about
the importance of the Land Use Plan, especially given the new state law that
requires Land Use Plans be updated by 2022. Mr. Robinson said that it is
important also because of all of the development that is being planned in
Carthage. Commissioner Smith asked about employees making fuel purchases and
whether the fuel expenditures have decreased because of the fuel cost being
reduced lately. Mr. Robinson said that there is always a checks and balances
system in place to monitor staff expenses.
V. OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
 Commissioner Smith said that he was disgusted that the Town had to mail a
Notice of Violation for our Water system. He said that Town Staff keeps
assuring everyone that we have excellent water quality, but then we send the
notice out. Ms. Dutton explained to the Board that the violation was not due to
water quality violations, but because Suez did not take a sample when they were
supposed to at a certain location. North Carolina requires the Town to provide
notice to the public. Commissioner Smith asked Mr. Robinson if David McKew gave
any explanation for the violation. Mr. Robinson said that he had spoken with
David McKew and he had given no explanation. Mr. Robinson said that he would
have David McKew attend the Regular Board meeting on May 18, 2020.
VI. CLOSED SESSION:
Per NCGS §143-318.11 a (6), after a motion made by Commissioner Smith and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board went into Closed Session at 7:16
p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII. ADJOURNMENT:
After opening their regular meeting at 7:36p.m., the Board adjourned at 7:37
p.m., after a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Barber. All ayes. Motion carried.
_____________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
MAY 18, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 18, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, May 18, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the Carthage Fire Department Meeting Room.
The meeting was made available via Zoom web conferencing, only the essential
personnel and Board were present.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Allen Smith, Chief
Bart Davis, Town Planner Kathy Liles, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. David McKew
with Suez was also present. Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot, Rich Smith from Moore
County government and T.C. Morphis with the Brough Law Firm all attended
through Zoom conferencing.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Nance gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dan Bonillo led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy,
the Board approved the revised agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting April 20, 2020
B. Minutes from the Special Meeting May 11, 2020
C. Minutes from the Closed Session Meeting May 11, 2020
D. Budget Amendment #36, #37, #38, #40
VII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Tom Robinson began his manager’s report discussing the Dowd Road Closure and
that our attorney has been working with the County to make sure that we retain
a twenty-foot wide easement on the section of Dowd Road that will be closed.
The Final Order of Road Closure will be discussed in the public hearing. The
Burger King that was approved has been placed on hold by the developer, we
suspect because of the economy. The quasi-judicial hearing that will need to
take place for the apartment complex will be postponed until we can have a
regular public hearing. Another item on the agenda is the Sewer Improvement
Project with USDA. Mr. Robinson would like the Board to consider connecting to
the 30” line instead of the 18” line. That will be a better scenario moving
forward for the Town. David Chapman is planning to purchase the subdivisions
owned by Pete Dowd and Ron Jackson. He will then redevelop them to include four
different housing types. All of the water lines have been successfully flushed.
Commissioner Bonillo rode around with Allen Smith to look at the different
projects that the Town is working on. Currently, the Nick’s Creek area is being
overrun with active beavers. Allen said that he has been coordinating with the
State Wildlife organization to find a solution. It looks like part of it will
have to be blasted out and then the beavers will be trapped.
VIII. PUBLIC HEARING
A. Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:39 p.m. to discuss the final
order of road closure for Dowd Rd between Courthouse Square and Saunders
Street. Mr. Morphis entered stated that the County had agreed on the twenty
foot general and utility use easement through the section that is being closed.
No one else from the public was present or called in to speak. The public
hearing was closed at 6:44 p.m. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved the Final Order
of Road Closure for a section of Dowd Rd in order to build the new courthouse.
The motion passed with four ayes and one nay. Commissioner Dustin Smith voted
in opposition of the Road Closure. Motion carried.
IX. OLD BUSINESS
A. David McKew addressed the Board with regard to some concerns that they had
about the Town having to report a violation in the water system. The violation
was not for actual water quality, but because a water sample was not collected
or reported when it was scheduled. The Town of Carthage is 100% in compliance
with all water quality standards and will be receiving a water quality award
soon. Several Board members expressed concern that they have to field a lot of
questions about the violations and it makes us look bad. Commissioner Smith
said that people worry about whether the water is safe for their families to
consume. Mayor Pro-tem asked what was done to the Suez employee that neglected
to draw the sample. Mr. McKew said that retraining staff provides the best
outcome, but they have also implemented new calendar programs that will remind
staff. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that he is tired of excuses and if it keeps up,
the town will be put in the situation where someone will have to pay for the
mistakes.
B. Mr. Robinson said that currently the Town is out of budget, but a balanced
budget will be ready for the budget workshop. By law, a balanced budget must be
presented by June 1st. Mr. Robinson said that he thought it would take no more
than two hours to go through the budget. The Board agreed to set a budget
workshop for Wednesday, May 27, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. Ms. Dutton also stated that
the Board needs to set a public hearing to consider the budget. After a motion
made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board set
the public hearing to discuss the FY 20-21 budget for the regular meeting on
June 15, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
C. Mr. Robinson asked the Board to approve the USDA funding amendment that
would allow the Town to connect to the County’s 30” sewer line that is south of
the traffic circle. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, the Board agreed to proceed with the request to amend
their project and financing with USDA. All ayes. Motion carried. 
Mr. Robinson has also prepared a letter for Randy Gould, the Director of Public
Works for Moore County. This letter is a formal request for the County’s
acceptance of the new line and increase in wastewater that would be sent to the
County for processing. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded
by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board agreed for the Manager to send the formal
request to the County for approval. All ayes. Motion carried.
X. NEW BUSINESS
A. Mr. Robinson said that he and town attorney, Al Benshoff have been working
on a new contract with American Tower. After some back and forth, they have
agreed to double the fees that they pay the Town. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the
Resolution in Approving the Amended Ground Lease and revised contract with
American Tower, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
B. Chief Davis explained to the Board that the Town of Cameron would like to
purchase a surplus vehicle from the Town of Carthage. They have offered $6000
for an equipped vehicle. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board approved the Resolution Approving the
Conveyance of Property to Another Unit of Government, as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
C. Kathy Liles introduced the Pinehurst Motor Club project. The project does
not fit neatly in any of the existing zoning categories that are currently in
the Development Ordinances. Ms. Dutton explained that they would also like to
annex the property into the Town limits and connect to water. Currently, we are
waiting on a legal description and/or a plat that describes the legal
boundaries of the property. Mr. Robinson mentioned that we need to be careful
regarding the shooting range and would like to seek out as much publicity and
community feedback during the conditional zoning process. Commissioner Smith
asked if they had reached out to the adjacent property owners yet. Mr. Robinson
said that he has mentioned it to them on several occasions, but is unsure
whether they have made contact with anyone yet. After a motion made by
Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board set a public
hearing to discuss the Conditional Zoning request for the Pinehurst Motor Club
for the next regular meeting on June 15, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
XI. COMMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
A. Ms. Dutton said that the Appearance Committee has not met in person because
of the virus, but they were able to coordinate their efforts and get all of the
spring flowers in the planter’s downtown.
B. The Historical Committee and Museum met in the McDonald Building so that
they had more room to spread out. The Museum is still closed to the public, but
they are presenting online exhibits on Facebook. So far, they have been a big
hit and they now have over 300 followers on Facebook.
C. Ms. Dutton reviewed the minutes from the May 7, 2020 Planning Board meeting.
The Board reviewed the plans for the Pinehurst Motor Club and seemed approving.
Kathy also reviewed the plans for the Savannah Garden’s Park. That led her to
give an update to the Board of Commissioners, too.
XII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
A.  Commissioner Nance read an email that he received regarding the poor
service a Moore County resident was given by CenturyLink. The resident was told
that the level of connection speed was limited by their location. Ms. Dutton
asked for the address and explained that the address is outside the Town’s
jurisdiction. Tom Robinson said that he thinks it is time for the state or
federal government to step up and provide better widespread coverage for
everyone. Commissioner agreed that internet has become essential and would like
for the Town to move forward with writing a resolution in support of the
government providing the extension of internet service. Mayor Chalflinch
thanked all of the Commissioners and Town staff for their hard work.
XIII. CLOSED SESSION:
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Bonillo, the Board closed the Regular meeting and went into Closed Session at
7:36 p.m. per N.C.G.S. §143-318.11 (a)(3). All ayes. Motion carried. After a
motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
Closed Session ended and the Board entered back into their Regular meeting at
8:02 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy offered the closing prayer.
XV. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the meeting was adjourned at 8:05 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
______________________________________ _______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
MAY 27, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL PLANNING/BUDGET WORKSHOP
MAY 27, 2020
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Budget Meeting on
Wednesday, May 27, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. in the Fire Department meeting room. The
meeting was also available through the Zoom conferencing service.
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Commissioner Christopher
Nance, Commissioner Al Barber, Commissioner Dustin Smith and Commissioner Dan
Bonillo. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy arrived late to the meeting. Present staff
included the Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Finance
Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Works Director Allen Smith, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner and Police Chief Bart Davis. A concerned Moore County resident, Dolores
Charbonnet, attended via Zoom.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the Board meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Chalflinch gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE: Commissioner Al Barber led everyone in the pledge of allegiance.
    
IV. OLD BUSINESS:
A. Tom Robinson addressed the Board concerning budget preparations. He said
that they typically budget revenues conservatively and budget expenditures
reasonably high so that there should never be much of a deficit. Typically, if
the Town is having a good fiscal year, extra expenditures can be considered at
the end of the fiscal year. Budget amendments can be approved during the year,
but the tax rate can only be set one time. This year, the leasing of more
police vehicles was an unexpected expense. There are two items that are up for
discussion and possible addition to the proposed budget. The first is the Land
Use Plan update with the Council of Governments. The state has mandated that
Land Use Plans must be updated by January 2022. The cost will be $24,000. The
other item is the security system for the parks. This would be the purchase of
a laptop to be located in the museum and a few cameras, so that both bathroom
facilities could be monitored. The cost is $4,900. Another item to consider
would be possible salary increases to take place mid-year, if possible.
Mayor Chalflinch stated that he thought the Land Use Plan and security system
should be added to the budget. Mr. Robinson said that another item to discuss
at some point, would be the elimination of Kathy Liles part time position and
the reduction of time allotted to Alliance Code Enforcement. The funding set
aside for those positions could be used to hire a full time Planner. This
person would do the Planning duties, write grants, the Downtown Development
Committee and also Code Enforcement. Commissioner Smith asked about the
“contracted services” category on the proposed budget. Ms. Matthews explained
that it is for the copiers, phones, internet, software licensing fees, etc.
Commissioner Smith also asked about where the Town staff purchases fuel from-
the County or local businesses. Ms. Matthews said that the cost was about the
same for either, but Mr. Robinson said that he would research that further.
Commissioner Bonillo asked about whether the Town has money budgeted for
sidewalks. The funding typically comes from Powell Bill funds and also the
General Fund. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy said that he remembers when the Board used to
prioritize street and sidewalk improvements. If money is budgeted for a certain
project, but it doesn’t take place, the funding gets added back to the general
fund and can be reallocated. Ms. Matthews added that at June 30th each year,
everything in the budget goes back to zero and starts over with the new budget.
Commissioner Smith said that he would like to see the Town hire another full
time firefighter for the weekends. Ms. Matthews stated that there is an energy
rate increase because Duke Progress rates are increasing. Commissioner Bonillo
stated that he would love to see the Town move towards using renewable energy
sources. Mr. Robinson said that Town staff is currently investigating the most
effective ways to clean and sanitize the rental buildings and Town Hall. Allen
Smith is looking into a fogger and treatment to use. Ms. Dutton reviewed the
proposed changes to the fee schedule. Commissioner Smith suggested charging a
higher rental fee for out of Town renters. And he suggested that all of the
Town Staff be able to reserve the building for no cost. Commissioner Bonillo
asked if the Veteran’s gravesites could be identified. Commissioner Smith said
that he had spoken to someone who requested to have a speed bump or traffic
control devices installed on Pinecrest Street, close to Buggy Drive. Tom
Robinson and Chief David explained that the design is important and the
property owners must be notified.
V. OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
 Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked Police Chief Bart Davis to place an electronic
traffic device on Needmore Road, because there are a lot of people that fly
through that area. Mayor Chalflinch said that he was glad that we have all been
able to stay safe and hope that it continues. Tom Robinson said that he thought
the next meeting would take place at the regular location.
VI. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy offered the closing prayer.
VII. ADJOURNMENT:
After opening their motion by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the meeting was adjourned at 7:58 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
_____________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
JUNE 15, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 15, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, June 15, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. The meeting was
held in the larger room of the McDonald Building to be able to accommodate more
people while allowing for social distancing.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Allen Smith, Chief
Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. T.C. Morphis with the Brough Law Firm
attended. Several law enforcement personnel were in attendance, Chris Sweet and
Max Muse from the Planning Board, Anton Sadovnikov, Farrah Newman and several
concerned residents from a nearby equestrian community.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. The Mayor asked
Fire Chief Brian Tyner to say a few words regarding the death of a beloved
fireman, Lanny Whitaker. There was a moment of silence.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Smith gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dan Bonillo led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Anton Sadovnikov addressed the Board of Commissioners regarding the selection
of the new Planning Board member. He felt that he is better qualified to serve
on the Board and was not selected because has only lived in Carthage for a
total of six years. He asked to Board to reconsider the Planning Board’s
recommendation to appoint Shaun Kerr to the Planning Board.
Ms. Kim Livengood addressed the Board and stated that she appreciates the Town
Clerk sending over the information that she requested. She supports the
additional training for the Board of Commissioners but does not think that the
Board should be over-accommodating to the developer’s needs. She invited the
Board and Town Manager to do a site visit of the location for the proposed
apartment complex.
V. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the Board approved the revised agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting May 18, 2020
B. Minutes from the Closed Session Board Meeting May 18, 2020
C. Minutes from the Special Budget Workshop May 27, 2020
D. Budget Amendment #41, #42, #43, #44, #45
E. Transfers A and B
VII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Tom Robinson began his manager’s report discussing new tractor and bush hog and
how much more productive the Public Works Department can be now, because of the
time savings. The crew mowed seven more miles in the same amount of time. USDA
agreed to purchase a sewer camera system for the Town as part of the loan/grant
program. Later on the agenda is an item to discuss using an old ambulance for
the camera system. Mr. Robinson has spoken to Blaine East about the Little
River project and it seems that the plans are still moving along. Contractors
are being lined up to begin work as soon as possible. The Pinehurst Motor Club
project seems to have a few issues. Those items have been postponed until
further notice. David Chapman is proposing some changes to the existing
Southbury Subdivision, Savannah Garden Phase 2 and the 15-acre tract that sits
behind the Town Hall. Mr. Chapman is pushing for a higher density, so the Board
will have to think about density and where the Town is going. Nick’s Creek
reservoir was devoid of water, a picture is included. There were several beaver
dams in that area and we are working with the local Wildlife organization to
trap the beavers. Mr. Robinson thanked the Board for approving the pay plan and
career ladder for the Police Department and said that it made a huge difference
in retaining and hiring good officers. Mr. Robinson said that he is pleased
that the Police officers are trained in various forms of defense so that they
have a variety of tools they can use. The most valuable tool that they have is
their mouth. That gives the ability to deescalate situations.
VIII. PUBLIC HEARING
A. Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:47 p.m. to discuss the
proposed FY 20- 21 Budget. Mr. Robinson explained that the Town was proposing
the same budget that we had this year. There were several one-time expenditures
that cost the Town to use more fund balance, but overall we are in good shape.
Budget Amendments can be approved throughout the year, but the tax rate can
only be set once. There is no tax rate increase proposed. Mr. Robinson and Ms.
Matthews did change the budget to add the $12,000 one-time expense to pay for
the pay study and performance evaluation process with Becky Veasey and the
League of Municipalities. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, the Board approved the proposed FY20-21
budget and budget ordinance as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
IX. OLD BUSINESS
A. Mr. Robinson stated that there was not really an update to give regarding
the Covid-19 virus. Ms. Dutton provided some information and current
regulations in some handouts.
B. Ms. Dutton stated that at a previous meeting, Habitat for Humanity asked the
Board to consider donating the property at 213 Clark Street for the next
Pathways at Pinckney Program build. The Board decided at the time, that they
were not willing to donate it, but they would consider the tax value. Habitat
sent a formal offer letter for the property, for the tax value of $4150.00.
Mayor Chalflinch suggested having the participating children attend a Board
meeting once school starts back so that the Board can commend their hard work.
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the Board agreed to sell LRK# 00002838 to Habitat for Humanity for the tax
value of $4150.00. All ayes. Motion carried.
C. Ms. Dutton stated that William Guillet and Associates have requested that
the Board set the date for the new Conditional Use Permit Request hearing for
the Carthage Place Apartments. Ms. Dutton read a summary of points including a
breakdown on how many 1-2- or 3 bedroom apartments there will be, the amenities
that will be included and the number of handicapped units there will be. The
apartments are not classified as Section 8 or subsidized housing. Instead, the
renter’s income must be in a certain range to qualify. Ms. Dutton stated that
the developer has requested the hearing before the next regular meeting, so
that he can potentially qualify for assistance with the NC Housing Authority.
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Barber,
the Board of Adjustment hearing to consider the Carthage Family Apartments was
scheduled for Monday, July 13, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.  
X. NEW BUSINESS
  A. Allen Smith explained to the Board of Commissioners that his staff was
tossing around some ideas and made the suggestion that the new sewer camera
system be housed in the Econoline van that was designated as surplus a few
months ago. He said that the van is already equipped to plug the camera
equipment in. The van will allow the crews to work more consistently during
inclement weather because it provides shelter and air conditioning. In
addition, because of its size and weight, it provides more safety for the staff
as they work. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by
Commissioner Nance, the Board approved to transfer the asset (Econoline Van)
from the Fire Department to the Public Works Department. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
B. The Board of Commissioners discussed the appointment to the Planning Board.
 They voted to table the discussion and appointment until they are able to do
more research and might possibly conduct new interviews.
C. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Milton Dowdy, the Board of Commissioners reappointed Antoniette Kelly, Carol
Steed, Bert Patrick and Joanna King to a new term to expire in June 2023. All
ayes, Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Board appointed Mr. Don Gibson to the Historical
Committee for a three-year term to expire June 2023. All ayes. Motion carried.
C. Kathy Liles introduced the Pinehurst Motor Club project. The project does
not fit neatly in any of the existing zoning categories that are currently in
the Development Ordinances. Ms. Dutton explained that they would also like to
annex the property into the Town limits and connect to water. Currently, we are
waiting on a legal description and/or a plat that describes the legal
boundaries of the property. Mr. Robinson mentioned that we need to be careful
regarding the shooting range and would like to seek out as much publicity and
community feedback during the conditional zoning process. Commissioner Smith
asked if they had reached out to the adjacent property owners yet. Mr. Robinson
said that he has mentioned it to them on several occasions, but is unsure
whether they have made contact with anyone yet. After a motion made by
Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board set a public
hearing to discuss the Conditional Zoning request for the Pinehurst Motor Club
for the next regular meeting on June 15, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
XI.  COMMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
A. Ms. Dutton said that the Appearance Committee has not met in person because
of the virus, but they were able to coordinate their efforts and get all of the
spring flowers in the planter’s downtown.
B. The Historical Committee and Museum met in the McDonald Building so that
they had more room to spread out. The Museum is still closed to the public, but
they are presenting online exhibits on Facebook. So far, they have been a big
hit and they now have over 300 followers on Facebook.
C. Ms. Dutton reviewed the minutes from the May 7, 2020 Planning Board meeting.
The Board reviewed the plans for the Pinehurst Motor Club and seemed approving.
Kathy also reviewed the plans for the Savannah Garden’s Park. That led her to
give an update to the Board of Commissioners, too.
XII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
A.  Commissioner Nance read an email that he received regarding the poor
service a Moore County resident was given by CenturyLink. The resident was told
that the level of connection speed was limited by their location. Ms. Dutton
asked for the address and explained that the address is outside the Town’s
jurisdiction. Tom Robinson said that he thinks it is time for the state or
federal government to step up and provide better widespread coverage for
everyone. Commissioner agreed that internet has become essential and would like
for the Town to move forward with writing a resolution in support of the
government providing the extension of internet service. Mayor Chalflinch
thanked all of the Commissioners and Town staff for their hard work.
XIII. CLOSED SESSION:
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Bonillo, the Board closed the Regular meeting and went into Closed Session at
7:36 p.m. per N.C.G.S. §143-318.11 (a)(3). All ayes. Motion carried. After a
motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
Closed Session ended and the Board entered back into their Regular meeting at
8:02 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy offered the closing prayer.
XV. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the meeting was adjourned at 8:05 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
______________________________________ _______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
JULY 6, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL PLANNING/BOARD TRAINING
JULY 6, 2020
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Meeting and Board
Training on Monday, July 6, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. in the Fire Department meeting
room. No decisions were being made, so the meeting was not open to the public.
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Christopher Nance, Commissioner Al Barber, Commissioner Dustin
Smith and Commissioner Dan Bonillo. Present staff included the Town Clerk
Dorothy Dutton. Planning Board Chair, Chris Sweet was also present.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the Board meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Dan Bonillo gave the opening prayer.
III. PLEDGE: Commissioner Al Barber led everyone in the pledge of allegiance.
    
IV. OLD BUSINESS:
A. Chris Sweet attended the meeting to discuss the possible appointment to the
Planning Board. At the last Board meeting, there was some questions raised
about their selection process and if it was handled fairly. The Board members
asked to explain the process and also asked Mr. Sweet to investigate all of the
Planning Board member’s attendance. The Clerk and Planning Board chair will
report back to the Board of Commissioners.
V. WEBINAR TRAINING: MAKING QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS
The Board participated in the webinar created by David Owens at the School of
Government. He discussed the two parts in making a quasi-judicial decision:
determining facts and applying standards.
During the quasi-judicial hearing, the Mayor should read aloud, the standards
that are being used. Public opinion is irrelevant. Impartiality should be
practiced by the Board members. If a member feels that they cannot be impartial
and objective for personal reasons, they can be recused. Board members may only
consider the evidence presented at the hearing. They should not engage in
conversations with the property owners, opposing groups, or each other before
the hearing. Conditions can be imposed on the decision. But the conditions must
be related to the standards of approval and there needs to be some evidence in
the record that the condition is needed. Each case should be considered
individually, but similar facts should produce the same results. There are
three outcomes for a request: approval, approval with conditions or denial. The
decision must explain the rationale for the decision. For most quasi-judicial
decisions, a simple majority is required. But a supermajority is required for a
variance request. When determining how to calculate majority, do not include
vacant seats or those voters who have been recused. But if a Board member is
just absent, regardless the reason, the seat gets counted. When a decision is
made, they must be put to writing. It is an option to have a draft document
during the hearing, but they can also be written after a decision has been made
with all of the conditions included. The official document must be signed by
the Board Chair, and delivered to the Clerk’s office. The decision becomes
effective only after the clerk receives the document and adds the date of
receipt. A copy of the official findings of fact should be sent to the
applicant, the property owner and anyone else who requests a copy of them. The
Clerk must sign an affidavit for the file that the final order was distributed
per state law. Any appeals to the decision that are made, are made directly to
the Superior Court.
VI. COMMISSIONER COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS:
None
VII. ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer and Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the
meeting at 7:48 p.m.
_____________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
JULY 20, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JULY 20, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, July 20, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. The meeting was
also available via Zoom, with some minor audio issues.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Allen Smith, Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. T.C.
Morphis with the Brough Law Firm attended. Several members of the community
attended including Jonathan Watts, Harry Powell and Victor and Connie Burns.
There were also many people participating via Zoom. And Attorney Andy Petesch
attended to represent his clients. Jaymie Baxley from the Pilot observed via
Zoom.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.   
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Al Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting June 15, 2020
B. Minutes from the Closed Session Board Meeting June 15, 2020
C. Minutes from the Special Training Session July 6, 2020
D. Budget Amendment #2
VII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Tom Robinson began his manager’s report discussing the Town’s surprising amount
of ABC revenue during the Covid-19 pandemic. The County was sent money by the
state to reimburse the County and the municipalities for some of the extra
expenses because of Covid-19. The Town will begin gather information to submit.
The Little River subdivision is still up in the air, but Richard Larson should
be starting on Tyson’s Trail very soon. MeterSYS will be presenting the AMI
information at the next meeting. LKC is working on the sewer project. Also
included in the Manager’s Report, were all of the departmental reports for the
month.
VIII. OLD BUSINESS:
None
IX. NEW BUSINESS   
A. Ms. Dutton explained that staff has been working on an additional amendment
regarding housing types and districts where they would be allowed. The Planning
Board will review the amendment and make a recommendation at their August
meeting. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Public Hearing to discuss the possible housing
amendment was set for August 17, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
B. Ms. Dutton described the Conditional Zoning request that was submitted by
David Chapman. He is proposing to rezone the 15-acre tract of land behind the
Town Hall from Highway Commercial to R-10-CZ to build townhomes. Mr. Chapman
has submitted his complete application and site plan. The Planning Board will
review the plans and make a recommendation at their August meeting. After a
motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Smith,
the Board set the Public Hearing to discuss David Chapman’s Conditional Zoning
request for August 17, 2020 at 6:30pm.
C. Kathy Liles addressed the Board and said that the Village of Pinehurst and
the Town of Carthage had an “Area of Influence” agreement that expired in
2017.They have prepared a map and an agreement for the Town to consider. The
Town has to set a Public hearing to discuss the matter before anything can be
approved. After a motion was made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy, the Public Hearing to discuss the Area of Influence Agreement
was set for August 17, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
D. Chief Davis informed the Board that the Police Department was interested in
changing the software that they use to something that is more efficient.
Besides the startup cost, the fees are actually less expensive that what they
currently use.
E. Ms. Dutton informed the Board that she had received an application for
voluntary annexation from Flynn Fletcher LLC for a tract of land on Union
Church Road. The property meets the requirements for noncontiguous annexation.
The property owners plan to subdivide the property into four tracts for
residential use, after the annexation is complete. After a motion made by
Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board directed the
Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the request and to certify the result
of the investigation. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board accepted the
Clerk’s Statement of Sufficiency regarding the annexation request. All ayes.
Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Board set the public hearing to discuss the annexation
request for Flynn Fletcher LLC for August 17, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
F. Tom Robinson stated that Town staff has had their first meeting with Matt
Day with the Triangle J Council of Governments to discuss the Land Use Plan.
The meeting was quite productive. Now, the Board needs to appoint people to a
steering committee to work with staff and the Council. A group of 5-8 is
recommended. The Committee could be made up of Board members, Planning Board
members or other parties that the Board recommends. The Board was in agreement
that appointed people from different groups and the public would be for the
best.
G. Ms. Dutton said that recently, she had received a request for a manufactured
home to be installed on a property that is zoned RM-10. There are already
several properties that are zoned RM-10 that have mobile homes on them. As long
as all mobile homes follow the same special requirements, such as being set on
a permanent foundation, it seems that the use fits that zoning district. Staff
has written an amendment. The Planning Board will make a recommendation on the
amendment at their August meeting. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo
and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board set the public hearing for
August 17, 2020 at 6:30 p.m., to discuss allowing manufactured homes in the RM-
10 zoning district. All ayes. Motion carried.
X. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT CONTINUANCE:
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Board recessed the Regular meeting. After a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board of Adjustment meeting
resumed from Monday, July 13, 2020. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mr. Petesch addressed the Board with regard to a new version of an order for
the Board to consider. Mr. Silverman objected to more information being
provided to the Board. Mr. Morphis reiterated that only information regarding
the authority to apply for the permit should be considered. Mr. Morphis said
that since the last meeting, the applicant has supplied a letter from the
property owner which allows Mr. Guillet to apply for the permit. He suggests
that the Board go through the draft order and consider any other conditions
that they would like to add to the order. Commissioner Bonillo said that he
needed clarification about the rental program that would be in place because he
feels like it is excluding many other people. There was some discussion about
whether the applicant had changed the policies since he first applied in 2019.
Commissioner Smith said that he thinks that the apartment complex might hurt
the value of other properties in the area. He believes that the salary cap
might be harmful to those individuals who work hard, but don’t meet the salary
requirements. Mr. Morphis stated that the project seems to comply with the
ordinance and the application is complete. However, the permit can still be
denied based on any of the following reasons: the project will materially
damage the public, the project will substantially damage neighboring
properties, the plan is not in conformity with existing plans, the project does
not comply with the ordinance or the project is not in harmony with the area.
Mr. Morphis advised the Board that since the multifamily use is listed in that
district as a Conditional Use, there is a presumption that the use is in
harmony with that zoning district.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board accepted the application for the Carthage Family Apartments as
a complete application. All ayes. Motion carried. At this time, the Mayor
called for a ten minute recess so that the Board could review the draft order.
Once the Commissioners had read through the orders, the Mayor called the
meeting back to order.
After a motion made my Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy,
the Board agreed that the application and the proposed use does comply with the
Carthage Development Ordinance. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Smith,
the Board found the use, if built and operated, would materially endanger the
public health and safety because there are no sidewalks on the plan and no
extra measures to protect the children in the complex. All ayes. Motion
carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner
Bonillo, the Board found the use, if built and operated as proposed, would
substantially negatively impact the adjourning properties. All ayes. Motion
carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Board finds that the use is not in harmony with the surrounding area
because it should not be based on future development. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Smith,
the Board found the conditional use application does not comply with all of the
current plans that have been adopted by the Town of Carthage, including the
Bike and Pedestrian Plan and Land Use Plan. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the Board voted to deny the Conditional Use permit based on evidence that was
presented. 
Mr. Morphis said that the final order would be available for signing at the
next meeting.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A. Ms. Dutton read over the Historical Committee minutes.   
XII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Bonillo asked Mr. Petesch to mention to his client, Ms. Livengood
that the Town would welcome her into the Town limits, if she wanted to annex.
XIII. CLOSED SESSION:
The Board moved into closed session at 7:46 p.m. per G.S. § 143- 318.11. To
consult with an attorney employed ore retained by the public body in order to
preserve the attorney-client privilege between the attorney and the public
body.
XIV. ADJOURNMENT:
The regular meeting was resumed and adjourned at 8:33 p.m. following a closing
prayer by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy.  
_________________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
AUGUST 17, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 17, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, August 17, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Allen Smith, Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. T.C.
Morphis with the Brough Law Firm attended. Several members of the community
attended including Guy Putnam, Douglas Buchar and Tyler Chriscoe and his wife.
Buck Mims attended on behalf of Police Chief Davis. Jaymie Baxley from the
Pilot was also present.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.   
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro tem Milton Dowdy gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Christopher Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of
allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
 Mr. and Mrs. Eaton of 205 Hickory Street asked to address the Board regarding
some flood damage that occurred at their property. Mrs. Eaton said that when
they moved to the property in 2006, they were aware of the small stream that
ran down the lot. Since then, they have planted 75 trees and installed a silt
fence to help prevent erosion. About six and a half years since then, none of
the trees have survived and the silt fence has been washed away. The amount of
water that flows on the property is increasing and trees are falling over all
over the place. During a recent inspection by a “River Keeper,” they determined
that the culvert that goes under the road is too small; that makes the velocity
of the water greater. Now, the water fans out about 75 feet and their bridge
has been dislodged. The ground is too wet to mow most of the time. A new pipe
was installed, but now the water is hitting them from two sides. An engineer
examined the current situation and has given an estimate that repairs would
cost approximately $50,000.The Eaton’s don’t think that they should have to pay
for those repairs because they did not create the problem. They are asking for
the Town to step up and take care of the repairs or at least apply for grants
on behalf of the Eaton’s. Tom Robinson and Allen Smith both stated that they
had been out to visit the property, but they were not sure if a larger culvert
would actually help the situation. Mrs. Eaton provided notebooks for all of the
commissioners with pictures of the property. The Board said that they would
look into her request.
The Mayor called on Guy Putnam from the audience and asked for his comments.
Mr. Putnam stated that he recently moved here into Savannah’s Garden and was
curious about the public hearing.
Mr. Douglas Buchar stated that he was the owner of 103 Rockingham Street. He
recently built a garage on his property without permits and he is trying to
find out the status of the permit. Ms. Dutton explained that that item was on
the agenda for later in the meeting.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Board of Adjustment Meeting July 13, 2020
B. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting July 20, 2020
C. Minutes from the Closed Session Board Meeting July 20, 2020
D. Revised agenda as presented at the meeting
VII. CLOSED SESSION:
Per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3), the Mayor asked the audience to step out of
the Board room into the other side of the McDonald Building as the Board
conducts a Closed Session. The closed session began at 6:46 p.m. The closed
session was closed at 7:23 p.m. and the audience was invited back into the
Board room.
VIII. PUBLIC HEARINGS
A. The Mayor opened the public hearing at 7:23 p.m. to discuss the annexation
agreement with the Village of Pinehurst, also known as a sphere of influence
agreement. Tom explained that the proposed agreement would not change any of
the existing boundaries between Carthage and Pinehurst, but it renews the
agreement for a nine year period. The public hearing was closed at 7:26 p.m.
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the Board approved the new annexation agreement between Carthage and the
Village of Pinehurst, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
B. The Mayor opened the public hearing at 7:26 p.m.to discuss the text
amendment that would allow manufactured homes as a permitted use in the RM-10
zoning district. Ms. Dutton explained that there are not many areas in town
that are zoned RM-10, and most of them already have manufactured homes. The
Planning Board made a favorable recommendation at their meeting on August 6,
2020. The public hearing was closed at 7:28 p.m. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, the Board
approved the Resolution in Support of Land Use Consistency as it pertains to
Manufactured Homes in the RM-10 zoning district. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Milton, the Board approved the text amendment regarding manufactured homes in
the RM-10 district.
C. The Mayor opened the next public hearing at 7:28 p.m. Ms. Dutton explained
that earlier in the year, the Board approved a text amendment that added
“single family attached” dwellings to the Table of Uses. But another amendment
is needed to clear up the Development Ordinances. The proposed ordinance
amendment changes the table of uses by redistributing where the different
housing types are a permitted use and where they would be a Conditional Zoning
request. In addition, the proposed amendment creates a new Special Requirement
#50 for Duplexes and Single Family Attached, expands the Table of Dimensional
Requirements, adds a new section under Special Requirement #8 and also adds the
definitions: project parcel and series. Mr. Robinson said that the ordinance is
very piece milled, and this cleans the section up a lot. The public hearing was
closed at 7:31 p.m. After a motion by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of the Land
Use Consistency Statement as it pertains to housing types in the Development
Ordinances. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the text
amendment pertaining to housing types, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
D. The Mayor opened the public hearing at 7:31 p.m. to discuss the annexation
request for Flynn-Fletcher LLC. Ms. Dutton explained the annexation request for
a twelve-acre tract on Union Church Road. The applicant wishes to subdivide the
property into 4 parcels, approximately 3-acres each in order to have a builder
construct a single-family dwelling on each lot. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved the
annexation request for LRK 00001568 and the annexation ordinance, as presented.
All ayes.
E. Mayor Chalflinch opened the next public hearing at 7:34 p.m. to discuss the
conditional zoning request for David Chapman. The property being considered is
LRK# 00005489 and the property would be rezoned from HCD to R-10-CZ. Ben
Hitchings, the Town’s planning consultant introduced the project initially, and
Shane Sanders of SNS Engineering spoke to the Board on behalf of David Chapman.
Then Mr. Hitchings began walking the Board through each item on the proposed
Conditional Zoning ordinance. One area of great concern is stormwater
management. The applicant is prepared to provide information about the existing
stormwater infrastructure and whether the infrastructure is sufficient to allow
the stormwater from the townhomes to be directed across the street to the
designated wetland area. If the existing system is not guaranteed to the Town’s
satisfaction, the applicant will build a stormwater retention pond at the
entrance to their property.
The subdivision is proposed to have private streets with 2-10 foot wide lanes
with 2 foot curb and gutter. Initially, the Town was hesitant for the roads to
be private, but as long as emergency services can access the development and
the proposed Home Owner’s Association provides a solid maintenance plan, the
Town will allow the private roads. Also part of the HOA, is the designation
that the garage must be used for the storage of a vehicle and there is to be no
parking allowed on the road sides. There are (33) additional parking spaces to
be built within the subdivision to handle overflow/visitor parking. Garages can
more easily be used for vehicles, because individual yard maintenance is not
necessary. The HOA will be responsible for maintaining all of the common areas.
The secondary egress/ingress that is required by the Fire Marshal can be
managed with an emergency exit that will be located behind the Town Hall
building. They applicant will stub out the access road, ensuring that emergency
services can access the development if needed. As compensation for using the
Town’s driveway, the applicant will pay the Town $25,000.
Each unit will be individually metered. Garage service will be provided to each
unit. Traditional street trees will not be expected for this development.
Instead, the applicant will plant landscaping clusters in between the buildings
and spread throughout, as space allows. There was some discussion about a
shared use path from S. McNeill Street to the Town Hall in the future. Instead
of asking the developer to pay for part of that path, a payment in lieu per
unit will be paid. The Town Manager also mentioned the need to put a sidewalk
all the way down Savannah’s Garden Drive. Commissioner Nance asked about school
bus pick up in Savannah’s Garden. The new sidewalks will increase safety in
that area.
There was discussion about traffic improvements that might be needed at the
intersection of Savannah’s Garden Drive and US 15-501 Hwy. The traffic impact
analysis should provide some suggested improvements and those improvements must
be completed before the building permits are pulled. The building elevations
will similar to examples that have been provided and similar to the development
that staff visited in Durham, called Southern Pointe.
The 9-acre tract of property (LRK# 20100338) will be donated to the Town for a
future park site. Fencing is required on the two sides of the property that
abut the Town Hall parcel. In addition to the vinyl coated chain link fence,
Green Giant Arborvitae and other evergreens shall be planted along the fence
line.
The project will take place in at least two phases. The first phase will be the
first five dwelling buildings and the amenities. The emergency access area will
be constructed at the beginning of the second phase. The Town requests a
provision that allows the Town the option to buy-back the sewer capacity that
is unused after ten years. As part of this Conditional Zoning approval, the
site plan and preliminary plat are considered to be approved, too. Staff
requests the authority to review and approve the site plan based on the
conditions that are approved by both the Town and the applicant.
Mr. Sanders stated that the offer of the $25,000 for access was meant to be a
condition offered for an additional building of dwellings. The additional
building is proposed to be located back on the property near the access road.
While the Town Manager does not have any issue adding an additional building,
the Town Attorney mentioned that the adjacent property owners would have to
receive an updated notice that lists the additional building. The applicant
does not want to have to re-notify the adjacent property owners, as there would
be a delay. Mr. Sanders and Mr. Chapman were in discussions and then the
applicant offered the $25,000 for the access, $500 payment in lieu per dwelling
unit, but they do not agree to pay the additional $27,500 for the sidewalk
project. They agreed to leave out the extra building at this time.
The public hearing was closed at 9:36 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner
Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, the Board approved the
Resolution in Support of the Land Use Consistency Statement as it pertains to
the Conditional Zoning request for David Chapman. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the Board approved the Conditional Zoning request and map amendment for
LRK# 00005489 with the following changes:
1. Eliminate the $27,500 for the sidewalk on Savannah’s Garden Drive;
2. A payment in lieu of $500.00 will be paid for each dwelling
All ayes. Motion carried.
IX. MANAGERS REPORT
Mr. Robinson explained that there have been no updates to the Little River
property at this time. Mr. Robinson had originally scheduled MeterSYS to do
anther presentation on AMI at this meeting, but because of the potential length
of the meeting, he postponed. It occurred to Mr. Robinson, that the Board does
not have “Rules of Procedure” that have been adopted. The Board agreed that
this was something that should be pursued. Mr. Robinson stated that he would
like the Board to consider scheduling a Planning Workshop in the next couple of
months. During this workshop, the Board can review the AMI proposal, water
sources, sewer capacity, and rules of procedure and they also get an update on
the budget. The workshop can be held in the Fire Department and dinner will be
provided. Mr. Robinson stated that there is a sewer force main on Buggy Drive
that the Town should accept. Town would take the service from the property line
to the force main.
X. OLD BUSINESS   
A. Mr. Robinson said that there has been a need to modify the tie on point with
the County for the proposed sewer line. The County is currently editing the
required paperwork. In addition, a statement about the existing sewer line
still being maintained and owned by the Town. The Board also granted Mr.
Robinson the authority to sign off on the paperwork for the sewer project
change, after a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes. Motion carried. 
B. Town Attorney, T.C. Morphis had prepared a Final Order for the Conditional
Use permit that was denied by the Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners in
July. Mr. Morphis said that it was long, but given the history of the project,
he thought it best to provide as must information as possible. The Findings of
Fact provides evidence to support both sides. Property values were not included
in the Order because the Board didn’t have the evidence that it would be
harmful to values. The project was not necessarily in conformity with the
neighborhood. The NC Fair Housing standards are different than the federal
standards. The Board was concerned that the proposed apartment complex was not
workforce housing; but the Board of Commissioners never said that they did not
want low income housing in Carthage. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith
and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved the Final Order for
the Denial of the Conditional Use Permit, as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.
C. Police Chief Bart Davis approached the Board to explain again why the
department has switched software from Southern Software to SOMA.  In general,
Southern Software did not deliver all of the technology and options that they
were supposed to. In fact, the Carthage PD paid them $1000 last year, and they
still haven’t received the program they paid for. Overall, the Police Chief
just wants what is best for the officers and the public.  
D. At the behest of Commissioner Nance, the appointment of Shaun Kerr was
placed on the agenda. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, Shaun Kerr was appointed to the Planning Board for a term
to expire in August 2023. All ayes. Motion carried.
E. At the July Board meeting, Mr. Robinson requested that the Commissioners
start thinking about how they want the Land Use Steering Committee structured.
While, only a few commissioners have made recommendations, the names have been
compiled. The Board can appoint all those listed, or choose a small amount to
serve. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board appointed Joanna King, Bob Hunt, Lillie Mae Barrett, Anton
Sadovnikov, Dan Bonillo, Charles Campbell and George Wilson. All ayes. Motion
carried.
XI. NEW BUSINESS
A. Ms. Dutton stated that the Town has received an application to rezone the
property at LRK# 00006742, located on S. McNeill Street. The applicant is
proposing to rezone the property was R-20 to R-10 so that she can build more
units. The applicant is interested in building townhomes for a 55+ community.
If the property is rezoned to R-10, then the use is permitted. Then all that
will be required is the site plan review. After a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board set the public hearing
for September 21, 2020 to consider the rezoning of LRK# 00006742. All ayes.
Motion carried.
B. Ms. Kesha Matthews addressed the Board with information about the Town’s
proposed payment plan for past due utility customers during the Executive
Orders established because of Covid-19.  The Town is suggesting that customers
who owe more than $500 or less can have 6 months to pay the delinquent amount.
Customers who owe more than $500, will have a total of 9 months to pay their
balances off. During the repayment time, they are responsible for their current
balances, too. Penalties can be applied to new past due balances, as of August
1, 2020.  After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved the payment plan, as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried.
C. Mr. Robinson explained that the County has prepared a lease agreement for
the parking lot at the corner of W. Barrett and Martin Streets. The County has
been using it for years at no cost. Part of the agreement for closing Dowd
Road, was that the County would begin making a yearly payment of $3,800. The
County has some revisions to make, so the agreement will be revisited at the
September meeting.
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS:
A. Ms. Dutton reviewed the Planning Board Minutes from August 6, 2020. The
Planning Board made favorable recommendations to all of the items that were
scheduled for Public Hearing. At the request of the Board of Commissioners,
Chris Sweet addressed the Planning Board member’s attendance. As a result,
Connie Burns got very upset with Chris Sweet and Mr. Sweet resigned from the
Planning Board, effective immediately.
B.  Ms. Dutton explained that the Code Enforcement report is included for the
Board’s review. However, recently, the County contacted the Town about a large
garage that was being constructed at 103 Rockingham Street. The County put a
stop work order on the building. But it appears that the owner is building a
garage that is larger than what is allowed per the Town Ordinances. Mr.
Robinson stated that no one wants him to have to remove the building, but there
has to be some action to ensure that the rest of the residents understand the
rules and take the ordinances seriously. There are repercussions for their
actions. Mr. Robinson will reach out to the County to see what action they plan
on taking. More than likely, the Town will ask the owner to remove the garage
or a settlement can be made in some time. .
XIII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Nance thanked the Public Works Department for all their hard work
in getting Summitt Street straightened out. Commissioner Bonillo thanked Public
Works and the Fire Department. Commissioner Smith asked the Board if it was
okay if he graded the baseball field and said that Moore County Parks and
Recreation will be bringing some dirt to fill in some spots. He also said that
the flag at the Community Building was in need of replacement. Commissioner
Barber said that he was glad to see everyone and everyone was Covid free. Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy asked for Public Works to clean up some vegetation in the yard
beside the Needmore Community Garden. Mr. Robinson said that he would be having
a meeting with Code Enforcement because he is not happy with their performance.
Mayor Chalflinch said that he loves the members of the Board and is thankful
for such wonderful staff.   
XIII. CLOSING PRAYER
Mayor Pro-tem offered the closing prayer.  
XIV. ADJOURNMENT:
The regular meeting was adjourned at 10:38 p.m. after a motion made by
Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes. Motion
carried.
_________________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, September 21, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dustin Smith and Commissioner Al Barber.
Commissioner Bonillo participated during the meeting via Zoom.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Allen Smith, Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Brandon
Emory with Alliance Code Enforcement, Pat Corso with Moore County Partners in
Progress, Anne Friesen with Friend 2 Friend, and several other members of the
community attended.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.   
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Bonillo gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Dustin Smith led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
The Town Manager stated that one item had been added to the agenda and that the
Board could accept the change as part of the Consent Agenda. The Mayor also
moved up the Consent Agenda ahead of the public comment section.
V. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Smith. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting August 17, 2020
B. Budget Amendment # 3
C. Revised agenda as presented at the meeting
VI. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
A. The Mayor called Paul White and asked him to begin his comments. Mr. White
expressed frustration with Code Enforcement because it takes so long to see any
results. He stated that he has been calling Code Enforcement since March 2019
regarding the property at 108 Davis Street. He would like a better timeline for
how things are being handled. He advised the Board to be more aggressive in
dealing with code violations because it is harder to wait until things fall
apart. He said that the Town might be small, but we should be proud of what we
have. B. Mr. Joe Vaughn addressed the Board next. He is currently one of the
owners of a tract of land that borders both S. McNeill Street and Pinehurst
Avenue. The land is currently under contract with Mary Williams. Mr. Vaughn
thanked the Board and Town staff for their time and service. He stated that he
wants to see Carthage grow, progress and succeed. Property valuations have to
grow so that Carthage can afford to provide services to new residents. Mr.
Vaughn was speaking in favor of Mary Williams request for rezoning. The Mayor
stated that the rezoning request had been withdrawn, but they appreciate him
coming to speak in favor of the project. Ms. Dutton would be explaining more
about the project shortly.
VII. PUBLIC HEARING:
Ms. Dutton explained that the request for rezoning on LRK#00006742 has been
withdrawn. The applicants do not need to rezone the property to be able to
pursue the project. The applicants are working with their engineer to develop
the site plan and will move forward in October with the site plan approvals.
VIII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Mr. Robinson said that there is nothing new to report regarding Little River,
but the adjacent Magnolia Hill tract has had some serious inquiries.
The AMI presentation has been delayed until October at either the Regular
meeting or the Special Planning Workshop.
The USDA project design work is proceeding on schedule. The Town will have to
amend project to replace the master pumping station at McCaskill Road. This
amendment will expand the pump to handle the second phase of sewer improvements
that will need to take place soon after the first project. Additionally, it
will ensure that all of the grant money is utilized. USDA requires that all of
the loan money be spent first, and then grant funding.
Partners in Progress has hired a consulting firm to do an analysis of
entrepreneurial environment here in Moore County and then study where it should
be located. The consulting firm will be visiting the Buggy Building on Tuesday,
September 22, 2020.
Matt Day with the Triangle J Council of Governments will hold the first meeting
with the Land Use Plan Steering Committee on Tuesday, September 22, 2020.
The Town sent information to all the residents along Savannah’s Garden Drive
about the proposed sidewalk on the north side of the roadway. The Town invited
the residents to come out to the McDonald Building on Monday, September 21st
from 4p-6p to look at the project and also look at the proposed projects for
that area. Mr. Robinson recommends waiting to construct the sidewalk until we
have an indication what the developer is going to actually develop Southbury
and the townhome project.
Mr. Robinson mailed a letter to the Eaton’s last week regarding the drainage
problem at 205 Hickory Street. The Town is seeking additional advice on the
drainage situation and will contact the Eaton’s further when more information
is available.
As of September 17, 2020, neither David Chapman nor Pete Dowd have signed the
approval for the Conditional Zoning Ordinance for the townhome project behind
the Town Hall building. Mr. Robinson has given David Chapman until the end of
September to have both this and Pete Dowd’s signatures, or a deed indicating
that Mr. Chapman is the owner of the property.
A copy of the monthly departmental reports was included and becomes part of the
official agenda record.
IX. OLD BUSINESS:
A. Ms. Dutton stated that the first Land Use Plan Steering Committee is meeting
on Tuesday, September 22, 2020 at the McDonald Building. The meeting will also
be available via Zoom. Commissioner Bonillo has recommended that Patty Kempton
be appointed to the committee. She has lived in Historical Carthage for many
years with her husband Tim. She works for NC Department of Health and Human
Services. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy, Patty Kempton was appointed to the Land Use Plan Steering Committee.
All ayes. Motion carried.    
B. Mr. Robinson stated the lease agreement for the parking lot at the corner or
Martin and W. Barrett Streets. The Town Manager had requested that the lease
contain some sort of increase in compensation each year. The County Manager,
Wayne Vest, added a clause that the rate would increase 1.5% each year. After a
motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the
Board approved the Lease Agreement with Moore County for the parking lot. All
ayes. Motion carried.
X. NEW BUSINESS: 
A. Ms. Dutton said that this time of year is usually spent getting ready for
the Fall Festival and the Christmas Parade. Obviously, the Fall Festival will
not be taking place this year because of the virus. But a decision on the
Christmas Parade needs to be made very soon or staff will not have time to plan
it. Ms. Dutton said that she has reached out to a few other municipalities and
it seems we are all in the same position. The Town of Southern Pines is going
to host their Christmas Tree lighting virtually this year and they are not sure
if the parade will take place or not. Some municipalities will be hosting a
parade in which the floats will be stationary and the spectators will drive
around looking at the floats. The Town of Beaufort will have Santa Claus
available for families to drive by and see him. The Town Clerk was concerned
that the Town might not have the ability to host a parade with stationary
floats. She also expressed concern about expending the finances to only have to
cancel it later on, depending on the situation. Most of the Commissioners were
in favor of still holding the Parade. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy commented that it
wasn’t about what the Board wanted to go, it was about how to keep the public
safe. The Board agreed to think about it and a decision could be rendered via
phone call by the end of the month.
B. Mr. Robinson reviewed a list of topics that the Board will be addressing in
the next few months. Because there are so many projects being discussed and
potential policy changes, the Town Manager suggests that the Board schedule a
special planning meeting for the end of October. After a motion made by
Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board set the
planning meeting for Monday, October 26, 2020 at 6:30pm in the Fire Department
meeting room. All ayes. Motion carried.
C. After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board of Commissioners appoint Anton Sadovnikov to the Planning
Board for a term of three years, expiring in September, 2023.
D. Ms. Dutton stated that she received a request from Friend 2 Friend to
construct a second dwelling structure at their existing shelter area. Emergency
shelters are allowed in every zoning district. The location of the proposed
structure is in compliance with all of the development standards.
Unfortunately, there has been an increase in the amount of domestic violence,
sexual assault and human trafficking over the last couple of years. This
additional building will allow the non-profit to assist more victims and also
creates a space where the sick can be quarantined, if needed. After a motion
made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the
Board approved the site plan of the accessory dwelling structure for Friend 2
Friend.
E. The Moore County Sheriff’s Department would like to install a shed/carport
at their current location to house their larger buses, etc. They have actually
already installed the building, but were issued a stop work order and made to
get permits. The location of the carport does meet the setback requirements in
the Town’s Development Ordinance. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Milton
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board approved the site plan for
the carport at the Moore County Sheriff’s office. All ayes. Motion carried. 
F. Mr. Robinson stated that he and Pat Corso with the Moore County Partners in
Progress have discussed the Buggy Building previously and its potential use as
a small business hub. He introduced Pat Corso and asked him to speak a little
about the project. Mr. Corso said that they thought they could apply for a
disaster relief grant through the NC Department of Commerce. The concept of the
program is to study the disparity between Northern and Southern Moore County
and create opportunities for new business development and small businesses
receiving assistance. Mr. Corso suggests on co-branding a hub in conjunction
with UNC Pembroke and/or UNC Wilmington. It is their hope that they can grab
talent from the southern portions of Moore County and bring them north to open
businesses. Maybe of the grant programs require a match in funds up to a
certain amount. Mr. Corso stated that the Town Planner would be able to speak
further about the CDBG grant regarding Coronavirus and recovery. The total
amount for grants to be awarded is $26 million. The maximum individual grant
award is up to $900,000. The way to qualify is to tie your needs back to the
Coronavirus. In order to apply, the Town must hold two public hearings and also
have a citizen participation program. Ms. Liles said that she needs to hear
from the businesses that have closed because of the Coronavirus and also
businesses that have not been able to expand the way they had intended. There
must be a direct impact to the community. Mr. Robinson recommends that the
Board set the first public hearing for the October 2020 meeting. Mr. Wayne
Haddock, with Pinehurst Homes, is coming to inspect the Buggy Building on
Wednesday, to begin working on an estimate for needed repairs. After a motion
made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board set a
public hearing to discuss the CDBG Grant for Monday, October 19, 2020. All
ayes. Motion carried.
G. The Town Manager informed the Board that recently there was damage done to a
vehicle as it was crossing between Union Church Road and US 15/501 on Suggs
Street. Suggs Street is essentially just a cut through. While it is helpful at
times, there have been multiple accidents and quite a bit of vehicular damage
done. The Town Manager would like to close the road. That means that the road
width would be divided down the middle and half would go to each adjacent
property. Dennis Ross, who is the owner of Carthage Shooting Sports arrived to
the meeting late, but said he did not want to close the road because there are
several large trucks that need that road to get back on the highway. Ms. Dutton
explained that there is a process to closing the road and that before any
decisions can be made, a public hearing must take place. Her recommendation
would be to set a date for the public hearing for the November meeting. That
will allow the Board more time to think about the street and also they will be
able to hear from those in favor and those in opposition. After a motion made
by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board set the
public hearing for November 16, 2020 to discuss the possible closing of Suggs
Street. All ayes. Motion carried.
H. Brandon Emory addressed the Board to review the Code Enforcement cases. He
explained the process that is required to contact the property owners and
schedule the hearing. Additionally, if the property changes ownership, the
process has to start all over again. There are certain time limits required for
each process along the way, until an ordinance can be recorded. Then the Board
has the authority to pursue further action including condemnation, penalties
and eventually foreclosure. At this time, Mr. Emory said that there are (4)
properties that the Town can move forward with: 104 Davis Street, 106 Davis
Street, 510 Martin Street and 516 Martin Street. The ordinances give Code
Enforcement the ability to charge each property up to $50 a day until they come
into compliance. After a motion was made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the Code Enforcement Ordinances for 104
Davis, 106 Davis, 510 Martin and 516 Martin Streets, as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried. Mr. Emory suggested that the Town’s Public Works Department go
ahead and clear the property up some, so that the properties could be posted
more safely and more visibly. Mr. Robinson said that at the next meeting, they
will have cost estimates and budget amendments to move forward with the
enforcement action.
I. Ms. Dutton explained that the Mayor requested that she call Karen Kaplan
with Keep Moore County Beautiful. The organization was seeking a representative
from the Town to attend their meetings and hopefully to increase outreach and
participation. Mayor Chalflinch asked Commissioner Bonillo if he would consider
taking over his position as the Town’s Triangle J Council of Governments
representative, so that he could serve with KMCB. Commissioner Bonillo agreed
to assume that position and Mayor Chalflinch agreed to serve with the KMCB
group.
J. Ms. Dutton stated that there was a change to the fee schedule that was being
requested. Typically, the rentals of the McDonald and Community Buildings have
not required any deposits. But recently, it seems that people are not cleaning
up after themselves. The most recent group scratched the floors really badly
and left food in the microwave. Town staff is seeking to add a refundable
deposit to the fee schedule. In the event that the building is left in poor
condition, the deposit will be retained to help offset the extra cleaning
expenses. After a motion by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner
Nance, the Board approved the ordinance amendment to the fee schedule regarding
building rental deposits. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
A. Ms. Dutton reviewed the minutes from the September 3rd Planning Board
meeting. The Planning Board recommended that Anton Sadovnikov be appointed to
the Board. They also reviewed the rezoning request from Mary Williams for LRK#
00006742. Ms. Dutton explained that the applicant would still have to have a
site plan approved, but at this time, they were hoping to rezone, so that they
could have the ability for greater density. Several members of the Board stated
that they did not think that was a good location for R-10 zoning and some
questioned whether it was considered spot zoning. Ms. Dutton found some
definitions of spot zoning online from the School of Government and stated that
it would be considered spot zoning if it was a small tract of property and also
if the requested zoning was completely different from surrounding. For example,
if they were requesting a commercial district in the middle of all residential.
The Planning Board did not make a recommendation to approve the rezoning.
B. The Appearance Committee did not meet this month because many of the members
are older or are in poor health. But Tom and Becky Prim have kept things going
and have made plans for the fall planter arrangements.
C. Kim Gibson has been attended the Historical Committee meetings. They have
decided not to host the Tour of Homes this year because of Covid-19. In
addition, they are going to remain closed until further notice because of the
age and health of many of the members.
XII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
  The Mayor apologized again to Paul White, for the delay in pursuing the code
enforcement cases. Commissioner Smith asked us to investigate the policy
regarding the Town’s baseball field. The County has authority over the area
because they handle the maintenance of the field. He was recently using it and
there was a conflict with another group that showed up to practice there, too.
Commissioner Bonillo asked is the Town Board had a recommendation or plan for
trick or treating this Halloween. The Board stated that it would be an
individual decision for each parent/child to make. But the Police providing
assistance for safety does not mean that the Town is endorsing people
gathering.
XIII. CLOSED SESSION:
Mayor Chalflinch closed the open session at 8:04 p.m. and stated the Board
would be entering into Closed Session. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Closed Session was closed at 8:
19 p.m.  
XIV. ADJOURNMENT:
The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:20 p.m. after a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Smith. All ayes. Motion carried.   
_________________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
OCTOBER 19, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 19, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, October 19, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, and Commissioner Al Barber. Commissioner Bonillo and
Commissioner Smith participated during the meeting via Zoom.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Allen Smith, Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Brandon
Emory with Alliance Code Enforcement, Jaymie Baxley with the Pilot, Anton
Sadovnikov, Farrah Pulliam, Kenna Wilson with Pinckney Community Learning
Center and former Commissioner Artie Barber were all in attendance.
Additionally, several Pinckney students and their families attended.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.   
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS: None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
The Mayor said that he was excited to present certificates to several Pinckney
Community Learning Center students who participated in the first Pinckney
Pathways to Construction program. He went on to say that the students had done
a wonderful job and that he is so proud of their accomplishment. The Mayor
presented the framed certificates to Brantley Lowery, Edward Womble and Jayden
Cotton. Several other students could not be present because they were attending
Sandhills Community College or were away working. School principal, Kenna
Wilson, said that she couldn’t be more proud of the students and that she would
make sure the other students received their certificates.
Artie Barber was the only person that signed up to speak. He asked if he could
defer his time towards the end of the meeting, because his issue might be
addressed. The Mayor agreed.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting September 21, 2020
B. Minutes from the Closed Session Meeting September 21, 2020
B. Budget Amendment # 4
C. Agenda, as presented.
VII. PUBLIC HEARING:
The Mayor opened the Public Hearing at 6:34 p.m. Ms. Kathy Liles reviewed the
Community Development Block Grant that the Town will be applying for. She first
went over the relevant Covid-19 information regarding the number of deaths,
hospitalizations, demographics, etc. Based on some recent statistics, the
County has been most affected in the northern portions of the County, where
there might be a higher minority population. The grant program can be applied
to either a direct or area wide benefit to low and moderate incomes. Currently,
the median income in the County is $88,000. The Town of Carthage does not share
that average and that aspect will have to be stressed in the application. Mr.
Barber asked if the program was applied using the tier system, but Ms. Liles
said that it was not. The goal of this grant would be to restore the Buggy
Building to be used as a small business incubator. The location is great for
the County, since it is centrally located. As part of the grant, stipends may
be awarded to help with small business start-ups. So far, the application
request would be for between $700,000-$800,000. Several County representatives
are going for a tour of the Buggy Building on Wednesday. After a motion made by
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the
Citizen Participation Program with regard to the CDBG, as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried. The Public Hearing was closed at 6:46 p.m. 
VIII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Tom Robinson gave his report. The Auditors will be attending the November
meeting to review their report. So far, the numbers are looking very positive.
MeterSys will be doing a presentation about AMI’s at the October 26th workshop.
Town Staff is still working on reviewing the employment performance appraisal
system and pay plan along with Becky Veasey. The Town Board will need to
schedule another workshop to discuss that plan as well as plan for any
personnel changes. The Town has also been reviewing a technology plan because
most of the computers are severely outdated, including the operating software.
Town staff recently was introduced to Dr. Richard Hilliard, who will take
ownership of the Gilliam McConnell Airfield and property after January 1, 2021.
He will be bringing a full site plan into the office in the next few months.
Riley Paving has been sold to Fred Smith Company out of Raleigh.
IX. OLD BUSINESS:
A. Ms. Dutton just reminded the Board again about the Special Meeting/Workshop
that is scheduled for Monday, October 26, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. in the Fire
Department Meeting room.
B. Mr. Robinson revisited the parade discussion from the last meeting. He said
that given the fact that there are so many new cases of the virus every day and
it is difficult to enforce mask-wearing and social distancing, he recommends
cancelling the parade this year. The Town Staff is small and he wouldn’t
recommend putting anyone at risk unnecessarily. Ms. Dutton also provided more
information about cancellations that she has researched. New Century and Union
Pines bands will not be participating this year. The City of Raleigh is hosting
their parade virtually only. The Business Guild in Southern Pines has reported
very few businesses are interested in participating this year. After a motion
made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board
agreed to cancel the parade for 2020. All ayes. Motion carried.
Chief Davis wanted to speak to the Board about moving the parade to a Saturday
morning in the future. The public safety issues are getting harder to manage,
especially with visibility being poor. The Board agreed to consider it at a
future meeting. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked the Town Clerk to research what dates
that other municipalities schedule their parades so that ours wouldn’t
conflict.
X. NEW BUSINESS: 
A. Mr. Robinson explained that the Board does not have a Rules of Procedure to
help guide their processes and policies. The Brough Law Firm prepared a
document several years ago, but the Town never reviewed or adopted anything.
The draft Rules of Procedure is included in the agenda packet. Mr. Robinson
asked the Board to start reading through it and make notes of things to be
changed. The Board can revisit it next month and hopefully can adopt an
official Rules of Procedure.
B. Ms. Dutton reviewed the site plan submitted for a new building at the
Sandhills Community College Public Safety Training Facility. The building will
be located on the right side once you pass through the gate. The building will
be used for trade classes like plumbing, electrical, mechanical, etc. Ms.
Dutton stated that the property is already zoned for educational uses and the
board just needs to review the site plan. The building meets all the required
setbacks and has adequate parking. Artie Barber interrupted to argue that the
property was supposed to be used for public safety training and that trade
classes is not public safety. Ms. Dutton tried to explain to the Board that
there is no zoning provision that limits the type of education that can take
place. All educational uses fall under the same umbrella. The Board opted to
table the site plan approval until Ms. Dutton can investigate whether the
property has any covenants and restrictions.
C. Kesha Matthews said that she had received a request for the Town to offer
the 457 Retirement Plan. It is a plan that is similar to 401K, but there are no
penalties to withdraw. Ms. Dutton added that you do not have to be a certain
age to withdraw, so for people who are farther from retirement, it is a good
option to have in case of emergencies. There is no cost to the Town to offer
the program. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by
Commissioner Barber, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of the Town
offering the 457 Plan to the employees. All ayes. Motion carried.
D. Ms. Matthews explained that the next phase of the Parks and Nutrition Grant
(Needmore Grant) was beginning and the Board needs to accept the next phase of
funding as well as authorize Tom Robinson to sign contracts and also to
authorize Kesha Matthews to sign Contract Expenditure Reports. After a motion
made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board
authorized Tom Robinson to sign Contracts on behalf of the Town of Carthage for
the Physical Activity and Nutrition Grant. All ayes. Motion carried. After a
motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
Board authorized Kesha Matthews to sign Contract Expenditure Reports on behalf
of the Town of Carthage for the Physical Activity and Nutrition Grant. All
ayes. Motion carried.
E. Kathy Liles explained the request from Roland Gilliam to add (10) more RV
sites to the Gilliam-McConnell Airfield and campground. The new owner will be
taking over in January. He plans on submitting a mater site plan and also
applying for Conditional Zoning for several uses. In the meantime, they need
the park to be self-sustaining so that it doesn’t cost them to operate. In
order to break even, they need the ten extra spaces. Mr. Robinson explained
that according to our zoning ordinance, there is supposed to be one shower, one
toilet and one sink for every (25) camper sites. Mr. Robinson said that he
doesn’t have any issues with allowing the ten additional sites, provided there
is a mechanism in place that would insure the bathhouse be completed before any
other development can take place. Ms. Liles stated that there can be a contract
or agreement in place that both parties would sign, approving the ten sites and
clearing stating that there is a specific amount of time when the bathhouse
must be constructed or all utilities will be disconnected to all of the RV
sites. After some discussion from the Board, Artie Barber interrupted and said
that the airfield and campground has not been in compliance and now the Board
is considering allowing it to expand again without following the ordinance
standards. He said that everyone should have to follow the rules with no
exceptions. The Board asked Mr. Robinson to confirm again that all utilizes
could be pulled if the bathhouse is not constructed in a timely manner. Mr.
Robinson said that the time has to be more than a year, because the economy is
unpredictable. After a motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded my Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board agreed to allow the (10) additional RV spaces as long
as an agreement for the bathhouse was signed, allowing up to two years to
complete the bathhouse. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
A. Ms. Dutton reviewed the minutes from the October 1st Planning Board meeting.
The Planning Board reviewed the site plan for Sandhills Community College and
made the recommendation to the Board of Commissioners to approve the site plan.
The Planning Board reviewed the Small Area Plan for the Needmore Community and
made the recommendation to the Board of Commissioners to adopt it.
B. Kim Gibson has been attending the Historical Committee meetings. There has
been some interest in reopening the museum on Sundays. But some of the members
are older or in poor health, they are more vulnerable to contracting the
coronavirus. Ms. King suggested they remain closed in October but readdress the
topic in November, and possibly opening every other week to allow for cleaning
in between.
C. Brandon Emory addressed the Board to review Code Enforcement efforts. He
explained that we received a complaint for a swimming pool located at 211 N.
McNeill Street. A Notice of Violation had been delivered to the property owner
and repairs were in progress. The water would be drained from the pool, and the
fence would be repaired. Mr. Artie Barber interrupted to ask for clarification
of the owner, to which Mr. Emory stated it was Mr. McGraw. Brandon mentioned
some other code enforcement cases, including the homes on Martin and Davis
streets. There are (4) homes awaiting an asbestos inspection and then the homes
can be demolished. Mr. Barber interrupted again and said that Sandhills
Community College would cover that expense if the homes were burned during a
training exercise. Mr. Emory said that he was unaware of any program, but would
certainly look into it.
XII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
None
XIII. CLOSED SESSION:
Mayor Chalflinch closed the open session at 8:13 p.m. and stated the Board
would be entering into Closed Session. After a motion made by Commissioner
Barber, and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy the Closed Session was closed at 8:
39 p.m.  
XIV. ADJOURNMENT:
The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:40 p.m. after a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.   
_________________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
 
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
OCTOBER 26, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL PLANNING WORKSHOP
OCTOBER 26, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Special Planning Workshop on
Monday, October 26, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the Carthage Fire Department meeting
room.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, and Commissioner Al Barber. Commissioner Bonillo
participated during the meeting via Zoom.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, and Public Services
Director Allen Smith. Brandon Emory with Alliance Code Enforcement, Larry R.
Caddell and a few representatives from Sandhills Community College and Andy
Honeycutt with MeterSys were all present.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.   
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Nance gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
After a motion by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
Board approved the amended agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI. SITE PLAN REVIEW:
The Mayor stated that the Board would be discussing the site plan for the
Sandhills Community College Training Facility. Ms. Dutton reminded the Board of
the status of the project. The Board had tabled the decision until more
research was done to verify that the property could be used for more than just
public safety. She stated that the location of the proposed building was in
compliance with the required setbacks for the property, there was ample parking
and enough buffers to meet the zoning requirements. Mr. Larry Caddell addressed
the Board and gave a history of the property. He also explained that Sandhills
Community College had received a grant to build the structure because it will
include trade classes as well as public safety. After a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board of Commissioners
approved the site plan for the Sandhills Community College metal building to be
used for trade classes.
VII. OLD BUSINESS:
A. Brandon stated that after speaking to Fire Chief Brian Tyner and also with
Sandhills Community College, they ascertained that there is no financial
assistance to help pay for the asbestos remediation through either
organization. Abatemaster has performed inspections of 4 dwellings and found
asbestos in all four. One of the structures has so much asbestos, they will
have to dispose of the whole dwelling as though it is hazardous material. The
Town had already allocated money to pay for the inspections, but now the Town
Board should consider the Budget Amendment for $ 11,150 to cover the
remediation. After a motion by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the Board approved the Budget Amendment to cover the asbestos
remediation in the amount of $11,150. All ayes. Motion carried.
B. Ms. Kathy Liles stated that the Town needs to schedule the second public
hearing for the Community Development Block Grant application. She expressed
the urgency of the process because the funding is first come, first served.
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Nance,
the Board set the public hearing for November 12, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the
Carthage Fire Department meeting room. All ayes. Motion carried. 
VIII. PLANNING TOPICS:
A. Andy Honeycutt, with MeterSYS, reviewed automatic metering infrastructure
with the Board. His company was created to empower utility service providers
and customers. The AMI helps improve operations, improve customer service and
increase financial capabilities. Because the Town’s service area is so large, a
tower based system would be significant and also harder for the Town to
maintain. Cellular works better for Carthage, because the Town is spread out
more. MeterSYS is recommending Badger meters as the sole-source because they
are the only manufacturer with cellular endpoint. No network management is
required. MeterSYS will be assisting with installing the meters, endpoint
technology and meter data management. Meter installation is done through G2.
MeterServ provides post-development service. The proposed meters are “solid-
state” meters which are more resistant to sand and debris. Mr. Robinson said
that the Town is looking at a payment of about $73,000 a year as payment.
Revenues would be approximately $50,000-60,000. Mr. Robinson plans on
scheduling a face to face meeting with Badger. Tom Robinson and Allen Smith
recommend replacing as many meters as possible instead of retro-fitting them;
that way they are all on the same cycle.
B. The next topic for discussion was water and sewer capacity planning. Bill
Lester and Mark Lacey, with LKC Engineering stated that they were finishing up
the design for the new sewer line. The permitting process will start in the
first quarter of next year. In some areas, there are some residential wells
that will have to be abandoned because they are in the right of way areas that
the Town needs. The Town of Carthage has grown a lot since the initial pumping
system was installed. The next project, Phase 2, would upgrade the force main
and upgrade Cox’s pump station down to McCaskill Road. The cost of those
upgrades is approximately $3.7 million dollars. Bill said that the Town will
probably have to update the System Development Fees to include some of these
new projects. Tom said that the Town needs to start looking at projects and
improvements that would span out twenty years. Mr. Robinson also stated that
the Town needs to start looking into other sources of water, so that the Town
can increase capacity, if needed. The Board was all in agreement to start
researching other water sources.
IX. NEW BUSINESS: 
A. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the Board set the date for the net Board of Commissioner workshop for
Thursday, November 12, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried. 
X. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Nance commented that the meeting was very productive, and Mayor
Pro-tem Dowdy agreed. Commissioner Bonillo said that he is excited to hear
about all of the opportunities available to the Town. Mayor Chalflinch said
that he enjoys the Board and their ability to all work together.
XI. CLOSING PRAYER:
Mayor Chalflinch offered the closing prayer.  
XII. ADJOURNMENT:
The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:24 p.m. after a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes. Motion
carried.   
_________________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
NOVEMBER 16, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 16, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, November 16, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Al Barber, Commissioner Dan Bonillo and
Commissioner Dustin Smith.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Public Services
Director Allen Smith, Police Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Brandon Emory with Alliance Code Enforcement, Jaymie Baxley with the Pilot, and
Lee Grissom with S. Preston Douglas, were also in attendance.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.   
II. INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Smith led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
None
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Mr. Robinson stated that Tommy Overby with the NC Rural Water Association and
David McKew, with Suez, were supposed to be in attendance to discuss the Town’s
recent award for water quality. After some communication, the Board was
informed that they got the dates mixed up, so the item would have to be
postponed until December’s meeting.
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes. Motion carried.
A. Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting October 19, 2020
B. Minutes from the Special Workshop Meeting October 26, 2020
C. Budget Amendment # 7
VII. PUBLIC HEARING:
The Mayor opened the Public Hearing at 6:41 p.m. Ms. Dutton stated that during
the September 21st meeting, the Board set a public hearing to discuss the
closing of Suggs Street which runs between US 15-501 Hwy and Union Church Road,
beside La Familia and Carthage Shooting Sports. The road is used as a cut-
through and is in bad shape. Recently a vehicle was damaged and in the past,
there have been accidents. La Familia had no issue closing the road, but
Carthage Shooting Sports is trying to work with the NCDOT to find another
solution. The Public Hearing was closed at 6: 50 p.m. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Suggs Street
closing was tabled until further notice.
VIII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Tom Robinson gave his report. There is a separate item on the agenda for phase
two of water and sewer planning. There are still many developers and proposed
projects in Carthage, but no one has started construction on anything yet.
There is no new information about the apartment complex appeal. Town staff met
with MeterSYS and Badger meters last week. The next step is for the town to go
out for proposals for financing of the AMI system. The Local Government
Commission also has to approve the financing and purchase. Becky Veazy is ready
to present the information about the Pay and Classification Plan, and the
performance review procedures. Later in the meeting, the Board will be asked to
schedule a special workshop so that the information can be presented to the
Board. Town Staff has been reviewing a proposal from VC3 for IT Solutions, but
now Davenport Lawrence is going to prepare a comparable proposal. The hope is
to get the Town on a cloud-based server. The Town Budget is looking good so far
for this fiscal year.
IX. OLD BUSINESS:
A. Tom Robinson stated that another special workshop date would need to be
scheduled to host the presentation by Becky Veazy. Ms. Dutton explained that
she has provided a revised calendar for the Board to use. The dates are marked
that Ms. Veazy is available. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board set the special workshop for
Thursday, December 17, 2020 at 6:30 p.m. in the Carthage Fire Department. All
ayes. Motion carried.
B. Brandon Emory, with Alliance Code Enforcement addressed the Board. The
property at 108 Davis Street has been through the notice of violation procedure
and no one appeared for the hearing. The Town can now move forward with the
Ordinance authorizing Brandon’s company to move forward with Code Enforcement
action. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner
Nance, the Board approved the ordinance authorizing the Code Enforcement
Officer to proceed with enforcing the Minimum Housing Codes. All ayes. Motion
carried. Mr. Emory gave a summary of the Monthly Report. ACE abated twelve
cases last month. In 2020 thus far, ACE has opened ninety-one cases and abated
eighty-three of them. There was discussion about the homes that have had the
asbestos inspections and remediation already and the possibility of the
Carthage FD using the structures for training.
C. Mr. Robinson explained that USDA was not offering the Town any assistance on
the additional funding that is required to connect to the County’s line farther
south, so that ultimately brings the grant funding to 59%. The balance is all
loans. LKC and the Town’s Public Works departments have all expressed the need
to move forward with a second phase of expansion of the Town’s sewer system.
These upgrades would include replacing the sewer pumps in the main corporate
limits of the Town as well as extending the 12” line down NC 22 Hwy. After a
motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
Board authorized the Town Manager to sign the letter agreement with LKC
Engineering to begin work on Phase 2 Sewer System Preliminary Engineering
Agreement and Environmental Assessment. All ayes. Motion carried. After a
motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the
Board agreed to appropriate funds to cover contract work by LKC Engineering.
All ayes. Motion carried.
X. NEW BUSINESS: 
A. Mayor Chalflinch explained that Lee Grissom, with S. Preston Douglas, was
present to review the FY19-20 Audit. Mr. Grissom first of all praised Kesha
Matthews, for her great job at documenting everything and compiling everything
that was needed so efficiently. There were only a few journal entries in this
audit. S. Preston Douglas assigned the Town the highest rating in an unmodified
audit opinion. There were only two findings: segregation of duties and a budget
violation. The Town always gets pinged for segregation of duties because the
Town staff is so small. The budget violation is more of an accounting error
having to do with a vehicle transaction. Mr. Grissom reviewed a collection of
graphs and charts that reflected the Town’s status over the last six years. The
Town has double the LGC’s minimum requirement for number of months in reserve.
The water/sewer fund needs improvement, but that could be because of some one-
time purchases that were made this year. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy asked if Mr.
Grissom had any recommendations or adjustments that he thought would help the
Town. Mr. Grissom said that the only real issue that he saw was the water/sewer
funds. And hopefully those funds would be improving.
B. Ms. Dutton stated that the Board approved David Chapman’s conditional zoning
request back in August, 2020. At that time, Mr. Chapman wanted to add one more
building to the project, for a total of 114 townhomes. The Board asked Mr.
Chapman to pursue that request separately. A revised site plan was included and
a public hearing is requested. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and
seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board set a public hearing for December 21,
2020 to hear the Conditional Zoning request from David Chapman for the
additional series of townhomes on LRK#00005489. All ayes. Motion carried.
C. Ms. Dutton explained that she had been sent a Resolution regarding Hazard
Mitigation from Scot Brooks at Moore County Public Safety. The Resolution
basically states that the Town entrusts the County to help administer our
Hazard Mitigation program. The counties of Moore, Chatham, Lee, Harnett,
Johnston and their incorporated jurisdictions have developed a regional hazard
mitigation plan with the assistance of a contractor. This plan incorporates
five (5) multi-jurisdictional hazard mitigation plans into one (1) regional
plan. In order to receive any available funding, the Town has to adopt a
resolution in support of the program. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance
and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution Adopting
the Cape Fear Hazard Mitigation Plan, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
D. Ms. Dutton stated that she had received the Resolution concerning recycling
from David Lambert with Moore County Solid Waste. There are many different
recycling locations in the County and it seems that there are discrepancies on
what each location will accept. This often causes frustration to the citizens
and the personnel that work at collection facilities. In order to simplify the
process, the County wishes to engage all of its citizens to “RecycleMoore.”
This is a new campaign to align all of the collection centers. The program will
not recreate any hardships for the Town. After a motion made by Commissioner
Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board adopted the Resolution to
Approve County-Wide Recycling Standards. All ayes. Motion carried.
E. At the June 2020 meeting, the Board agreed to sell a parcel of land to
Habitat for Humanity, for tax value. The property is located at 213 Clark
Street and the tax value is $4150.00. In order to move forward, the Board must
adopt a resolution expressing the intent to sell surplus property. The parcel
will be used in the Pathways to Construction through Pinckney Learning Center.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution Approving the Disposal of Surplus
Property, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
F. Tom Robinson reviewed the Town’s current ordinances on firearms and weapons.
Because of an increase in violence and the potential for violence, Town staff
sees a need to amend the ordinance. Ms. Dutton helps explain that the proposed
amendment to Chapter 94 of the Town Code, describes weapon in more detail and
states there should be no weapons in any of the Town’s park areas. Chapter 130
describes any Offenses against Public Property. This proposed amendment
reiterates that the Manager can install signs banning weapons on property and
it also gives Town staff and personnel the authority to carry whatever tools
are needed to complete their job. This might include items used for protection.
Commissioner Nance stated that he would never vote in favor of limiting
individual’s rights. Commissioner Bonillo thought the amendments were too
limiting and that they should not be restricted from all areas, for example,
fishing areas. After further discussion, Mr. Robinson suggested that the
amendments could be altered to mention specifically that no weapons are allowed
in Town buildings.
G. Kathy Liles addressed the Board to ask the Board to consider adopting the
Small Area Plan that was written for the Needmore Community. The Plan was
reviewed at a previous meeting. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board approved the Resolution Adopting the
Needmore Community Small Area Plan, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
None
XII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Bonillo thanked the Board for being accommodating to his schedule.
Mayor Chalflinch said that he was informed recently that some departments don’t
ask for the supplies that they need to do their jobs. For example, the Fire
Department only has enough uniforms for one per person. Sometimes if the
firefighters have to go back out on another call, they have to wear their wet
uniforms again and the steam burns them. Mayor Chalflinch said that it is
unacceptable. The Town might not be able to afford a second set of uniforms for
everyone at one time, but they could certainly start chipping away at the need.
The mayor said that the same goes for the other departments, too. Mr. Robinson
invited the Board to staff Thanksgiving potluck on Tuesday, November 24, 2020
at noon.
XIII. CLOSED SESSION:
None
XIV. ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Smith,
the meeting was adjourned at 7:37 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.   
_________________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Town Clerk
DECEMBER 21, 2020
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REGULAR MEETING DECEMBER 21, 2020
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Monday, December 21, 2020 at 6:
30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Al Barber, Commissioner Dustin Smith and Commissioner Christopher Nance joined the meeting via telephone call 
(speaker phone).
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Public Services Director Allen Smith, Police
Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Shane Sanders (SNS
Engineering), James O' Malley, Emily Yopp, David McKew (Suez), Tommy Overby 
(NC Rural Water), Cheryl Richardson were all in attendance.
Jaymie Baxley with the Pilot was also present.
CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Smith gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS: 
None
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
Cheryl Richardson addressed the Board with regards to the potential
closing of Suggs Street. At a previous meeting, the Board agreed to table the decision until further notice,
with the hopes that NCDOT would contribute to repairs. Ms. Richardson and her
siblings own the building where La Familia
Mexican Restaurant is located. They would like to close the road. If it is not closed, they prefer that repairs
be made in a more substantive manner.
She said that water just puddles up there and
there has been damage to many vehicles. The Board thanked her for attending and stated that they would consider her
request. Tom Robinson said that she would be contacted in the event was placed
back on an agenda in the future.
Tommy Overby addressed the Board and stated that the Town of Carthage was
awarded a water quality award for 2019. The Area Wide Optimization Program
requires higher
quality standards than the normal State minimums. The water quality is measured in levels of turbidity. Out of
146 water systems, only 55 met the requirements of the program. Mr. Overby
thanked David McKew, Tom Robinson and the Commissioners for their diligence in
bringing Town water into compliance. A photo was taken with Tommy Overby, David
McKew, Allen Smith and Mayor Chalflinch.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tern Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Smith.
All   ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting 11/16/2020
Updated Agenda as presented.
PUBLIC HEARING:
The Mayor opened the Public Hearing at 6:42 p.m. Ms.
Dutton reminded the Board that in August, David Chapman's original Conditional Zoning request was approved. At that time, Mr. Chapman had requested adding one additional
series of 6-single family attached dwellings to the plan. The building would be
located closest to the back of the Town Hall property. Ms. Dutton stated that
none of the originally agreed upon conditions were changing.
The Resolution in Support of the Land Use Plan and the Conditional Zoning ordinance remained
the
same but references the additional building. The Planning Board made a favorable recommendation at
their meeting on December 3, 2020. The Public Hearing was closed at 6:44 p.m.
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy,
the Board approved the Resolution in Support of the
Land Use Statement as it pertains to the Conditional Zoning amendment for
Carthage Farms. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board approved the Conditional Zoning Ordinance amendment to add the additional 6-
dwelling series to the approved project. All ayes.
Motion carried.
MANAGER'S REPORT:
Tom Robinson gave his report. AMI will be on the agenda in the next couple of
months. The Hillcrest Sports Complex is almost finished. The courthouse project
and the connector road construction are slated to begin before summer 2021. The
Town of Carthage has a lot of potential development coming including Mr. James
O'Malley's project, David Chapman's townhomes, Southbury and Savannah's Garden,
Phase 2. Blaine East and his
investors met with Town staff earlier in the month and are set to close on the property on December 28, 2020. They
hope to get started with the already platted lots in January. Future site plans
will have to be reviewed and approved, moving forward. There is an item
later on the agenda about the demolition of the homes through Code Enforcement.
The Town was recently informed of a grant that will help pay for electric
charging stations for vehicles. Tentatively, the Town would like to install one
at the Food Lion shopping center and the new parking lot proposed for where
Fred's was located. The Small Business Development center is still moving
forward for the Buggy Factory building. All
of the department reports and Alliance Code Enforcement Report were included as part of the Manager's Report.
OLD BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton reminded the Board that at the last meeting, the Board requested
a few changes to the proposed weapons ordinances. Mr. Al Benshoff made the
suggested changes. The proposed ordinances will prohibit firearms in the government buildings but at park properties, weapons are
permitted, as long as they remain in vehicles with the correct permit. After a
motion made by Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the
Board approved the amendments to Town Ordinances Chapter 94 and Chapter 130, as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Tom Robinson stated that Town Staff has selected the sewer camera that
they would like to purchase. Winter is the best time of year to use the camera,
because typically public works staff does not have a lot of extra work that
needs to be done. He recommends that the Board go ahead and allocate the funds
and allow USDA to reimburse the Town for the camera. Mayor Chalflinch asked if
purchasing the camera would strain the Town's budget, but Mr. Robinson said
that it would not. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy, the Board approved the purchase of the sewer
camera and Budget Amendment# 10, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
There are currently five homes that are involved in code enforcement action
and need to be demolished. Two of the homes are eligible to be burned for fire
training, but three of them require a contractor to remove the structures and
dispose of all the debris. After
some discussion about the three estimates, the Board decided to utilize the local contractor who has already
done some work for the Town and is reputable. After a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy, the
Board selected Wilkes Grading to complete the demolition of the three
structures. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith
and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board approved Budget amendment#11,
to allocate funds to pay for the demolition of 104 Davis, 106 Davis and 510
Martin Streets. All ayes. Motion carried.
The proposed pay plan was added to the agenda for consideration.
Mayor Chalflinch asked the Board to consider tabling the item until after the
first of the year, due to some political-economic concerns. The
Board decided to discuss and consider the item, as planned. Many commissioners
were comfortable moving forward with at least the cost-of-living-allowances,
and Commissioner Smith said that he wanted to move forward with all of the
proposed changes. Tom Robinson explained to the Board that the Commissioners
would also be receiving an increase in pay. After a motion made by Commissioner
Smith and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board approved to move forward
with the full implementation of the pay plan. All ayes. Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS:
Ms. Dutton informed the Board that the January Regular meeting would
typically fall on Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday. In the past, the Board has
rescheduled the meeting for the next Tuesday, which in this case would
be January 19, 2021. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy, the Board rescheduled the Regular
Board meeting to Tuesday, January 19, 2021. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Dutton informed the Board that Mr. James
O'Malley has applied for Conditional Zoning on the 80-acre tract of land
adjacent to the Little River property. Mr. O'Malley is proposing three areas
for development. The very corner of McCaskill Road and NC 22 Highway (Area
A) will be a commercial site for a convenience store with (8) gas pumps. The
second area runs along the McCaskill Rd side (Area B) will be the Magnolia Hill
Apartments. Mr. O'Malley is proposing a total of 216 apartments, which will be
a combination of 1, 2 and 3-bedroom units.
The apartments will have the same layout as Tyler's Ridge Apartments, but the exterior will be different.
The apartments will be market rate and will have some nice amenities for the
tenants. The portion of the tract that is mostly on the NC 22 side and towards
the rear of the property, will be a two-level climate and humidity controlled
storage facility. The building will not have any exterior units, but there will
be a drive-through access. There is an existing buffer of trees that will
remain to help shield the storage facility from the road. In addition, behind
the storage facility, there is a proposed parking lot area for the storage of
vehicles, including large recreational vehicles. Once the hearing date has been
set, the adjacent property owners will be notified, the property will be posted
and a legal ad will be published in the Pilot. After a motion made by
Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the public hearing to
consider the Conditional Zoning request
for the Magnolia Hills tract was set for Tuesday, January 19, 2021. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Mr. Robinson explained the Community Economic Recovery and
Resiliency Initiative
(CERRI) program. Grace Lawrence with the NC Commerce Department would be
working with the Town to do an assessment of the Town's economy, make
suggestions on how to improve our businesses. This program
also includes an assessment of the downtown area. The first step towards
participation is for the Board to consider a Resolution. After a motion made
by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy, the
Board approved the Resolution Requesting Participation in the
Community Economic Recovery and Resiliency Initiative and
the Associated Services, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Kesha Matthews addressed the Board to explain that the Covid-
19 Federal Emergency Paid Sick Leave policy expires on December 31, 2020. At the time of the meeting, there was no indication that the federal government would extend this relief program. But because Covid-
 19 is still very much a threat, she and Mr. Robinson feel that it would be of
benefit if the Town adopted its own policy that still provided the
coverage until it is no longer needed. After a
motion made by Commissioner Barber and seconded by Mayor Pro-
tern, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of Extending Covid-leave
benefits until they are no longer needed. All ayes. Motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS-
Ms. Dutton reviewed the minutes from the December 3, 2020 Planning Board. The
Planning Board will host the public meeting for
the Magnolia Hills project at their January 7, 2020 meeting.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy asked if the Town has signs already regarding the
new weapons ordinances. Ms. Dutton stated that they would be ordered as soon as
possible. Mayor Chalflinch thanked the Town staff for all their hard work. Mr.
Robinson announced that the Town staff would have a
catered lunch on Tuesday, December 22nd • Each department would go pick up lunch in the Fire Department,
but take the meals back to their respective departments to eat. This would
minimize any exposure and be in line with the Governor's distancing orders.
XIV. ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy offered the closing prayer. After a motion made by
Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the
meeting was adjourned at 7:23 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
2021 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 19, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REGULAR MEETING
January 19, 2021 6:30P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on Tuesday, January 19th at 6:
30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy,
Commissioner Al Barber, Commissioner Dustin Smith, Commissioner Christopher Nance and Commissioner Dan Bonillo.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom
Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Public Services Assistant Director Brandon Brown, Police
Chief Bart Davis, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner.
Jim O'Malley, Rich Smith representing Moore County, Emily Yopp and her sister, Jaymie Baxley with the Pilot, Al
Benshoff with the Brough Law Firm, Pat Corso and Crystal Morphis and
several concerned citizens were in attendance.
CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE: 
Commissioner Bonillo led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS: 
Mayor Chalflinch asked the Board if they minded moving up the first item of new
business, so that the speaker wouldn't have to stay for the public hearing. The
Board agreed and Kathy Liles took the podium to introduce the proposed Buggy
Building project and the first speaker, Crystal Morphis. Ms. Morphis is with
Creative Economic Development Consulting. She was hired by Moore County
Partners in Progress to assist with their study for an entrepreneurial hub
located in the Town of Carthage. Ms. Morphis gave a summary of the
proposed project. Moore County seems to be the perfect climate for an economic hub as proposed. Moore County
currently has a positive business climate and Moore County is in the top 
(25) counties in North Carolina for number of patents. The buggy building is a
great location and the structure itself has great bones. In order to make it
work, the Town needs to partner with an affiliate. Sandhills Community College
is on board to participate, and UNC Pembroke is a possibility, too. The
partners would apply for a grant to provide 80% of the expense to repair and
renovate the Buggy Building. She explained that the main point of the request
is to have the Town of Carthage on board with the program. Mr. Corso added
that after the hub was built at UNC Pembroke, commercial growth took off and
now there is a brewery
and loft apartments. They thanked the Board for their time.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
Everyone who signed into the meeting was hoping to speak during the Public
Hearing portion of the meeting, so the Mayor moved on with the next item.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA: 
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes. Motion carried.
Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting 12/21/2020
Budget Amendments #12, #13  & #14.
PUBLIC HEARING:
The Mayor opened the Public Hearing at 6:40 p.m. Ms.
Dutton refreshed the Board about
the project being proposed by Jim O'Malley. The project
would take place on the Magnolia Hill tract, the 80-acre
tract that is adjacent to the Little River development, at the corner of NC 22
Hwy and McCaskill
Road property. Ms. Dutton stated that there are four parcel areas planned.
The first is the 2.5-acre tract at the corner of NC 22 Hwy and McCaskill Road.
He will not be developing this parcel himself but would like the Board to
consider a maximum of 3500 square feet for a retail space. The second parcel is
the apartment complex. The third parcel is the climate-controlled storage
facility and parking area. And finally, the conservation area is the fourth area. Ms. Dutton
introduced Mr. Jim O'Malley and he began reviewing the project. He thanked the
Board and said that Town staff has been great to work with. He said that he has
met two adjacent property owners on site and have been working through some of
their issues. The storage facility is a low-traffic-use and therefore has a low
impact. There is a fence planned around the storage facility for security.
There are several motion-sensing security lights, and the area will only be
accessible to those who have a code or fob to open the gate. The storage
facility is tiered, and the lowest side is on the north side. There are (6) 10
x 20 office units planned, a loading dock and a Penske truck rental area. There
is a large natural buffer around the parking lot area in the
back. All of the outside lights will be facing down. North of the storage
facility, is the large parking area. There is a large natural buffer in place,
but nice landscaping will be done. A traffic study was done that considered all
of the intersections in the vicinity of
this project and consideration was given for a full build out of the project. The only recommendation was the acceleration and deceleration lanes. The only
real blind spot is because of existing topography.
Mr. O'Malley said that the apartments will be market rate and the tenants are
screened to make sure they can afford the units. At his other development, the
median tenant income is about $74,000
a year. There is a good balance of men and women, singles and couples. At this proposed complex, there will
be (3) gas fire pits on timers, clubhouse, pickle ball courts, dog park areas
and a pool.
The clubhouse area by the pool will also sell canned beverages and have a pizza oven.
The 2.5-acre tract at the corner of the property will be reserved for a
commercial use. Mr. O'Malley plans to sell this tract
but is requesting that up to a 3500 square feet building can be constructed with ample parking in the future. Mayor Pro-
tern Dowdy asked whether the speed limit was considered in the traffic study.
Mr. O'Malley said that
it wasn't necessarily considered, but the speed limit can be changed with enough requests from municipalities and property owners in the area.
Ms. Liles and Ms. Dutton read through the proposed Conditional Zoning Ordinance. If there are
any changes to the project, Mr. O'Malley will have to go back through this
process again. Once constructed, the shared use path will be the Town's to
maintain. The path will be constructed on parcels 1, 2 & 3. The Town will
coordinate the path for parcel 4. Stormwater management plan will have to
be approved by NC DEQ. Construction drawings will specify the stormwater plans
and include the 2- and 10-year storm events. Mr. O'Malley has agreed to install
a shadow box fence along an adjacent
parcel owned by Mr. Jim Dixon. The length is to be determined once the project begins. Mr. O'Malley
verbally agreed to all of the conditions in the ordinance.
The Mayor began calling the public to speak and voice their concerns. Mr. Dixon
stated that Mr. O'Malley has been very cooperative with this project. He said that he wishes the storage building was a lighter
shade of blue because he thinks it will stand out too much. Ms. Sarah Stewart
said that she was very concerned with the traffic impacts on NC 22 Hwy. She
suspects that eventually the NCDOT
will have to regrade the whole road because of a rise. Ms. Susie Harrington
stated
that her family has lived on their current property since the 1800's.There are several farms in the area that they are trying to keep alive, but
the development makes it harder and harder. Ms. Susan McCrimmon resides on
McCaskill Road towards Farm Life School Road. She has seen at least 
(4) vehicle accidents in the last six months. She said that people already drive faster than the speed limit that is posted. Mr. John Gagan voiced his concern about the
environmental impacts and questions whether a storage facility is an
appropriate building that serves as the beginning of Town zoning. Mayor
Chalflinch closed the Public Hearing at 7:46 p.m. Ms. Dutton read the
statements of Land Use Consistency. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance
and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board approved the Resolution in
Support of the Land Use Consistency Statement with regard to the Magnolia Hill
Conditional Zoning request. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board approved
the Conditional Zoning Ordinance for the Magnolia
Hill tract, or LRK# 00031348 from PUD zoning to TED-
Conditional Zoning. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Chalflinch called for a short break.
MANAGER'S REPORT:
The meeting resumed at 7:54 p.m. and Tom Robinson gave the Manager's report.
The Little River Project presentation has been postponed because the
project engineers are not ready. The AMI project is still a priority. We will have to go out for bids
again because of late responses. In the meantime, Town staff will try to
schedule a meeting with the Local Government Commission. There are still many
developers who are interested in working in
Carthage. After a recent conversation with the County Manager and Commissioner Graham, the Town might have the opportunity to connect the new sewer line to the County's existing I 8" line instead of taking it all
the way to the 30" line. The NCDOT has decided to move the expansion of NC 24/
27 Hwy (Monroe) up on their priority list. They will begin the road widening in
the next few months. Also included in
the Manager's Report, are the monthly reports from each Town department.
NEW BUSINESS:
Mr. Robinson explained a request that Moore County has made to reduce the
System Development Fees for the new Hillcrest Sports Complex. When the County
originally requested connection for the new building, they submitted the water/
sewer flows based on a gymnasium that
also has showers. They are requesting to use
the 2" meter to calculate the SDF's and then in a year, the flows can be re-
calculated based on their actual use over the course of the year. The County
will pay the difference at that time, if there is one. After a motion made by
Commissioner Barber and seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board agreed to
reduce the System Development Fees for the Hillcrest
Sports Complex based on the 2" service and to re-
calculate the fees after a year. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mr. Robinson and Mayor Chalflinch had the opportunity to discuss the
sewer project with Wayne Vest and Catherine Graham. Because of the delay in response from Public Works Director, Randy Gould and then an unfavorable decision, the Town has to seek an extra $1 million dollars of loan funds
to complete the sewer project and tie into the County's 30" line that is south
of the traffic circle. This loan creates an extra $50,000 a year payment. Mr.
Robinson is seeking the Boards support to formally request the County
reconsider the connection. Mr. Robinson suspects that they will still decline,
but it is worth it to ask. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy, the Board officially approved the Town Manager
to seek approval from the County to tie into their
18" line instead of extending it down to the 30."All ayes. Motion carried.
Ms. Dutton reviewed the request from County Board Chair, Frank Quis, to attend a work
session on January 27, 2021, to discuss the proposed increase in occupancy tax.
However, Ms. Dutton received an email earlier from the County Clerk stating
that the meeting had been
cancelled because of the pandemic and wanting to keep everyone as safe as possible. It will be rescheduled at a future date.
Ms. Dutton explained to the Board of Commissioners that Town Staff met
with NCDOT
staff to discuss all of the proposed projects in and around Savannah's Garden. Staff asked NCDOT
to make any recommendations to help with the flow of traffic. Based on their
calculations, there are no improvements that can be enforced, but they do
recommend extending the left and right turning lanes on US 15-50 l  into the
area. Mr. Robinson doesn't think that it is fair to put all of the
cost onto David Chapman and his projects. Instead, the Town should share the cost. Mr. Chapman has agreed to
pay up to $50,000 toward the improvements but wants to pay a portion of it with
each lot that is improved. This is approximately $265 per lot/unit.
Mr. Robinson explained that he has made a list of any and all of the items that he
could think of for a list of priorities in Town. They are divided according to
department or subject and there are some blank lines for the Board to add some
others. Mr. Robinson asked the Board to rate each item and return the forms to
the Town Clerk. Each item listed will receive an overall rating. These
items will be discussed in more depth at the next Board workshop.
Ms. Dutton discussed the Carthage Buggy Festival and asked the Board for
guidance about whether to plan the festival or cancel it because of the
pandemic. According to the Moore County Health Department, it is too early to
know the status of the virus at that time. The vaccine is
being disseminated, but it is a slow process. Regardless of planning in
advance, if the Governor's orders change, the festival may have to be
cancelled. If we are able to host the festival, there will surely have
to be many safety measures in place
including limiting the number of people at each booth, enforcing mask-
wearing, providing hand sanitizer, etc. Ms. Dutton stated that she and the
Public
Works Director had been talking about possibilities and think it might be a good decision to plan like normal, but not collect any money from sponsors or vendors until at least April 15, 2021. That would hopefully prevent having to
issue so many refunds and send so many letters of cancellation. Ms.
Dutton mentioned that if there was not a lot of participation or the
mandate was changed, the festival would be cancelled.
The Board agreed to those terms
Town staff was recently informed that some of the zoning fees were low based on the amount of work that it takes for certain processes. It was brought to the Town Staffs attention that before
any changes can be made to the fee schedule, the Town must publish notice on
our website and post notice on the door to the office. Ms. Dutton asked the
Board to set a public hearing. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and
seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board set a public
hearing to discuss the fee schedule with regard to some of the zoning fees.
OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. Al Benshoff, with the Brough Law Firm, addressed the Board about the
Little River Farm Planned Unit Development. He said that in the past, no one
kept very good records about what was approved and what would be
a vested right. He and the Town Staff have been trying to piece it together.
Approved final subdivision plats are vested if they have been recorded. Mr.
Benshoff said that he had compiled the information into a draft document. Mr.
Benshoff said that the Town can amend the Special
Use Permit at any time, but if a future owner will apply for what they want to do to the property.
Town Staff should provide a copy to Mr. Blaine East so that he can provide any
other information that he has for the records.
Kathy reminded the Board about the Community Economic Recovery and
Resiliency Initiative (CERRI) program. Grace Lawrence with the NC Commerce
Department would be working with the Town to do an assessment of the Town's
economy, make suggestions on how to improve our businesses. This program also
includes an assessment of the downtown area. At this stage, the Town needs to
approve the Memorandum of Understanding with the NC Department of Commerce and
a Resolution requesting participation in the program. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution Requesting Participation in the Community
Economic Recovery and Resiliency Initiative and the Associated Services, as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board authorized Tom Robinson
to sign the Memorandum of Understanding, as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
D.  Tom Robinson reminded the Board that they wanted to revisit the
proposed pay scale for the Commissioners, Mayor and Mayor Pro-
tern. They had previously agreed to implement half of the pay raises during
this fiscal year and the other half in July. There was no vote made, but the
Board agreed to move forward.
E. Tom
Robinson and Al Benshoff reviewed the proposed Personnel Policy and the changes
that have been made since the last one was adopted. Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy asked
if all of the employees would be receiving a copy and suggested that they be
provided. After a motion made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy, the Board approved the Resolution
in Support of Adopting the revised Personnel Policy, Attachment A, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Tom Robinson explained that staff had researched using a different IT
Company, but they were much more expensive. Davenport Lawrence is our
current provider. They prepared a proposal for the Town to lease new
computers and software for three years. At the fourth year, the Town will have
the option to purchase the equipment. Around that time, Mr.
Robinson suggested that the Town would need to switch to a cloud-based system.
After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo
and seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board approved the technology plan and Budget Amendment#
15, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Kathy Liles addressed the Board regarding the Needmore Community Garden
and proposed park area. She requested to use some of the grant funding to have
a rendering done of what the park could look like. She hopes that the visual
aid would inspire the community to become more active with the project. At this
point, the park has been surveyed and Staff is just waiting on the maps to
be completed. Wilkes Grading will grade the front and remove some of the trees in the back area. The grant
funding cannot be spent on construction. Mr. Robinson believes that a drawing
will end up making people angry, if the park does not look like the picture.
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy stated that the people in the Needmore Community are
disappointed. The Park looks like an afterthought. He said that
simple things should be focused on-
plant grass seed, install a better fence, and repair the little shed building. He said that we need to do more tangible
things. The Board agreed that the rendering was not a good use of grant funds.
Mr. Robinson explained that the
house at 516 Martin Street was found to have more asbestos. As a result, a
normal demolition is not possible. Abatemaster, who has already done
several demolitions for the Town, has provided a proposal to remove 516 Martin. It is more expensive
than the others, because of the hazardous material. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board approved
Budget Amendment #16 and accepted the contract with Abatemaster
for the demolition of 516 Martin Street. All ayes. Motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
Ms. Dutton reviewed the minutes from the January 7, 2021, Planning Board. The
Planning Board hosted the public meeting for the Magnolia Hills project at
this meeting. The Board was very thorough in their review, and
eventually approved the Land Use Consistency
Statement and recommended approval of the Conditional Zoning Ordinance for
the Magnolia Hill project.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Nance thanked the Town for their work to clean up 510 Martin
Street. Commissioner Bonillo thanked Town staff for their work on the sewer on
Brooklyn Street. There have been no more complaints.
Mayor Chalflinch thanked all the Town staff and the public for attending the meeting.
XIV. ADJOURNMENT: 
Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy offered the closing prayer. After a motion made by
Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the meeting
was adjourned at 9:11 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
FEBRUARY 15, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
February 15, 2021
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, February 15, 2021, at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Commissioner Al Barber, Commissioner
Dustin Smith, Commissioner Christopher Nance and Commissioner Dan Bonillo. A
quorum was present. Mayor Pro-tem Milton Dowdy was unable to attend because of
a death in the family.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
Public Services Director Allen Smith, Finance Officer Kesha Matthews, Customer
Service Specialist Kim Gibson, Police Chief Bart Davis, Town Planner Kathy
Liles, and Fire Chief Brian Tyner. Blaine East, Jess Dishner, and Debbie Bureau
were present, representing the Little River project, along with the two
architects Hannah and Fabio. Jim O’Malley, Colin Webster, Jacob Sutherland,
Emily Yopp, Tommy Phillips and Jaymie Baxley with the Pilot, were in
attendance. Al Benshoff with the Brough Law Firm, and Paul Lang participated
over the telephone. One other concerned citizen attended.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.   
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Chalflinch gave the invocation.
III. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Nance led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
IV. ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS:
One item has been added under new business; to discuss the Hawthorne Hills
project.
V. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None
VI. APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
The board approved the following items, following a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes. Motion carried.   A.
Minutes from the Regular Board of Commissioners Meeting 01/19/2021
   B. Amended agenda as presented.
VII. OLD BUSINESS
      A. Kathy Liles addressed the Board to speak about the Little River plan.
In 2006, the Planned Unit Development was approved after the annexation. The
particular uses get locked in through the Conditional Use process. Preliminary
plats are only valid for five years. Site plans would start over again, too.
The only thing that is unexpired are the items that were recorded with the
Register of Deeds. Blaine East introduced his development team. Paul Lang is a
custom building based out of Atlanta. Debbie Bureau has worked for Little River
Resort and Condos since it was first developed. Jess Dishner worked in
construction for many years. The two architects are Hannah and Fabio. They were
both trained in California but are happy to work on the Little River project.
Mr. East said that there has been a lot of history on the property. The
property was originally a horse farm that was owned by the DePasquali’s. Bobbie
Blanche was one of the original developers of the property with Mr. East back
in the mid 2000’s. Blaine East said that he has always been passionate about
the property, but his previous business partners wanted to sell the property.
Eventually, Oceanico purchased the property and then went bankrupt. Blaine East
and his current business partners intend to close on the property in the next
week or so. They want to be good stewards of the land. The new bubble plan that
they are proposing is less than the original density that was proposed. Mr.
East said that he believes in having strong anchor tenants and the medical
complex will be a very strong anchor. He has been working to recruit Dr.
Richardson with the Cleveland Clinic. He was the inventor of the artificial
heart. He is also meeting with Pinehurst Surgical and FirstHealth. Mr. East
stated that he had found a listing for PUD’s that mentions all of the allowable
uses in a PUD designation. Mr. Robinson corrected him and stated that the
ordinance that was being displayed is not their PUD approval, but a section out
of the older Development Ordinances. The uses listed MAY be allowed, with Board
approval. If changes are made to the Pods that were previously approved, the
Board would have to review and approve the changes. Mr. Robinson said that they
do not have a blanket approval for all of the uses that are listed. Mr. East
said that they cannot design site plans until they know exactly who will be
occupying the spaces. Kathy suggested that they think of the process. A PUD
designation was assigned in the 1990’s. About (24) pods were recorded. If those
pods are going to be changing, the plan has to go back for Board approval.
Blaine said that they have reduced density in most areas. The retail village
will be larger, there is a golf academy proposed and also the medical complex.
Al Benshoff said that at the very least, an amendment to the original CUP would
have to be approved. Densities are being shifted around, but the density is not
actually increasing. Town staff asked Blaine East to summarize the approved
uses and then list all of uses and densities that they want and bring it to the
Board. Commissioner Bonillo asked if any consideration had been made to the
Town’s Bike and Pedestrian plan. Blaine assured him that they would be happy to
include a portion of the trail.
      B. Tom Robinson stated that we had received everyone’s priority sheets
back with the exception of the Mayor Pro-tem and Commissioner Smith.
Commissioner Smith would make sure that Tom received it back as soon as
possible. Mr. Robinson said that would help them prepare for the Board
workshop. Once we have the totals for each section, those can be incorporated
to plans for the next few years.
      C. Kathy Liles stated that the Community Economic Recovery & Resiliency
Initiative program will aid the Town in building a strategic plan to attract
businesses to the downtown area and businesses in general. The Century
Committee, which was reorganized about ten years ago, would act as the main
group responsible to coordinate with the NC Department of Commerce staff to
work on the plans. Tommy Phillips, who serves as the President of the Century
Committee has already spoken with several people who are interested in working
on the new CERRI committee. Mr. Robinson stated that in addition to the CERRI
committee, a member of the Carthage Board of Commissioners is always welcome to
join or attend the Century Committee meetings. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board requested
that the Century Committee take the lead in working on the CERRI program with
the NC Department of Commerce. All ayes. Motion carried. After a motion made by
Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board recommended
that Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch serve as the main representative from the Town
Board on the Century Committee. All ayes. Motion carried.
      D. Tom Robinson reintroduced the idea of requesting to the Moore County
Board of Education and Moore County Board of Commissioners that a new
elementary school be constructed in the same location that the school sits
currently. The location is ideal, but it has had very little renovations or
upgrades since it was originally built. Tom Robinson read through the proposed
resolution. The Century Committee would like to be involved. Tommy Phillips
explained that he is already stirring up support. Debbie Warren, the current
principal and many others are willing to help. Mr. Phillips stated that the
committee is not limited. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of
Rebuilding Carthage Elementary School. All ayes. Motion carries.
      E. For the last few months, Moore County Partners in Progress has been
working with the Town and Moore County to plan and develop a, Entrepreneurial
Hub to try to bring talent to the northern portions of the County. Crystal
Morphis conducted a study on the Tyson Jones Buggy building. She discovered
that a small business hub is quite feasible for the Town, provided the McDonald
Building and Community Center can be used for some of the meetings, too. In
order to be approved for a grant to help with the renovations of the building,
a 20% cost match must be made. Mr. Robinson and Kathy Liles are proposing that
the County contribute the 20%, because the Hub will benefit the whole county.
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo,
the Board agreed to ask Moore County to contribute the required 20% match. All
ayes. Motion carried. The Mayor stated there would be a five minute break.
VIII. MANAGER’S REPORT:
The meeting resumed at 7:49 p.m. and Tom Robinson gave the Manager’s report.
The AMI project is still moving forward. Tom Robinson and Kesha Matthews have
scheduled the Local Government Commission to review and hopefully approve the
financing to purchase and install the AMI system. As the Board is already
aware, Ms. Dutton has put in her notice and her last day will be March 4, 2021.
The Town is sad to lose her but is also excited for her as she moves to
Southport, NC to be their City Clerk. There are still many developers who are
interested in working in Carthage. The amendment to USDA for funding has been
submitted. Also included in the Manager’s Report, are the monthly reports from
each Town department.
IX. NEW BUSINESS:
      A. Ms. Dutton stated that after reviewing our fee schedule with the Town
Attorney, Al Benshoff, we were advised that some of our zoning permit fees
should be increased, so that the Town is better compensated for the amount of
time that is spent on certain projects. Ms. Dutton read through the proposed
changes that were highlighted for the Board’s review. Several fees were changed
to a graduated scale that is based on the size of the project. After a motion
made by Commissioner Nance and seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the Board
approved the FY 20-21 Fee Schedule Ordinance as presented and shown in
Attachment A. All ayes. Motion carried.
      B. Ms. Dutton explained that the Town has received another application
for Conditional Zoning for LRK# 00006742. This property affronts both South
McNeill Street and Pinehurst Avenue. This applicant is Colin Webster, who owns
both Grosvenor Properties and the Ascot Corporation. He is requesting to rezone
the property from R-20 to R-10-Conditional Zoning because he would like to
reduce the lot dimensions and setbacks. The Planning Board is aware of the
request, and they will make a recommendation at their March meeting. Staff is
asking the Board of Commissioners to set the date for the public hearing. After
a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the
Public Hearing was scheduled for March 15, 2021, to review the request for
Conditional Zoning on LRK# 00006742. All ayes. Motion carried.
      C. Ms. Dutton explained that because the Board would like to move forward
in scheduling the Buggy Festival, she has prepared the typical Road Closure
Ordinance for the day of the festival. This year it will be held on Saturday,
May 8, 2021. After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo, the Board adopted the Road Closure Ordinance for the
Buggy Festival, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
      D. Tom Robinson informed the Mayor and Board that the next item should be
tabled until more accurate information can he gathered. There has been a
request to connect an amateur radio antenna on the Town’s cell tower. A more
formal agreement must be composed, and the town cannot just give the space
away. There must be items in place to protect the town.
      E. Mr. Robinson suggested the Board schedule their first Budget Workshop
for March 2021. Commissioner Bonillo suggested March 13th because he will be
deploying again shortly after the weekend of March 13, 2021. After a motion
made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board set
their first Budget workshop for Saturday, March 13, 2021, at 8:00 a.m. in the
Fire Department. All ayes. Motion carried.
      F. Ms. Dutton informed the Board that the Town had received another
application to build multi-family dwellings on some property owned by Duncan
Kelly. The property will require quite a bit of grading since the property has
been used to store large vehicles and rocks. The applicant is requesting
Thoroughfare Business District-Conditional Zoning because they would like to
include buildings that are longer than what the Town Development Ordinances
allow as well as a greater number of units per building. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Board set the
public hearing for April 19, 2021, to review the Hawthorne Hills multi-family
Conditional Zoning request. All ayes. Motion carried. 
XI. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS-
      Ms. Dutton reviewed the minutes from the February 4, 2021, Planning
Board. The Board reviewed Colin Webster’s proposal for Conditional Zoning.
There was also some discussion about the new Hawthorn Hills project.
XII. ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS:
Mayor Chalflinch thanked the Town’s hard work and dedication. No other
Commissioners provided any comments. It was announced at 8:10 p.m. that there
would be another short intermission before the Closed Session began.
XIII. CLOSED SESSION:
The Closed session began at 8:17 p.m. After a motion made by Commissioner
Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber, the Closed Session was closed at
8:43 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
XIV. ADJOURNMENT:
Commissioner Barber offered the Closing Prayer. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Smith, the Board meeting was
adjourned at 8:45 p.m.
MARCH 1, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS SPECIAL CALLED MEETING MARCH 1, 2021
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioner held a Special Called meeting on
Monday, March 1, 2021 at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy, Commissioner
Christopher Nance, Commissioner Dan Bonillo, Commissioner Dustin Smith, and
Commissioner Al Barber.
Town staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson and Town Clerk Dorothy
Dutton. The meeting was also available through Zoom video conferencing.
I. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:26 p.m.
II. INVOCATION:
Mayor Pro-tern Milton Dowdy gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Al Barber led everyone in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
NEW BUSINESS:
A.    Mr. Robinson explained that LKC had filed the project amendment with
USDA, to include extending the proposed 16-inch sewer line to the County's 30-
inch outfall line and upgrading the McCaskill Road pump. LKC and Town
Administration was originally under the impression that the Town might not be
able to attain any additional grant funding for these changes. Lynn Whittington
with USDA worked diligently to obtain an addition $389,000 of grant funding
towards the amendments. Now there are many new documents that the Town needs to
sign and send back to USDA right away. The Board can approve one resolution
that includes the approval of all the required documents. After a motion made
by Mayor Pro-ten, Milton Dowdy and seconded by Commissioner Smith the Board
approved the Loan Resolution for the Sewer Capacity Improvements Project and
all the documents listed in the Resolution as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   Ms. Dutton stated that the Town was moving forward with the AMI
installation. The next step would be for the Local Government Commission to
review our applications and proposed contracts. Before the Town can enter into
any contract, the Town must first hold a public hearing and place notice in the
local news publication. Ms. Dutton recommended setting the public hearing for
the next regular meeting. After a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and
seconded by Commissioner Nance, the Board set the public hearing for March 15,
2021, to discuss entering into contracts for AMI equipment, service
installation, and management. All ayes.
   Tom Robinson explained that there are two recreational vehicles that are
unused by the Public Works and Police departments. The John Deere gator has
logged a high number of hours in use and the golf cart is expensive to maintain
because the batteries do not hold a charge anymore. After a motion made by
Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber the 1997 John Deere
Gator and 2002 Yamaha golf cart was declared surplus and the sale of the motor
vehicles as authorized through GovDeals. All ayes. Motion carried.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Commissioner Nance offered the closing prayer.
ADJOURNMENT:
After a motion made by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy,
the Board meeting adjourned at 6:30 p.m.. All ayes. Motion carried.
March 15, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 15, 2021
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioner’s held their regular meeting on
March 15, 2021 at 6: 30 p.m. at the McDonald Building, located at 207
McReynolds Street.
Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy and
Commissioners Nance, Bonillo, Smith and Barber. Town staff present were Town
Manager, Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Emily Yopp, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Town
Finance Manager Kesha Matthews, Customer Service Specialist Kim Gibson, Police
Chief Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner and Public Works Director Allen Smith.
Others present were Willie Joe Vaughn and Colin Webster representing the
Carriage Hills project. Garland Dowdy, a resident of the Needmore community,
Joanna King of the Historical Committee were also present. Kim Livengood, a
resident of Carthage, was also there.
CALL TO ORDER –
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION –
Mayor Chalflinch gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE –
Commissioner Nance led the room in reciting the pledge.
ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS –
During the Budget Workshop held March 13, 2021, additional agenda items were
identified. They were; 1) Needmore Community Garden Planning, 2) the addition
of a Public Works maintenance worker, a police officer and a Fire Captain (with
the use of a Safer Grant) 3) awarding the contract for the Savannah’s Garden
sidewalk project as well as the contract to line eleven (11) sewer manholes and
replace 220 feet of sewer line. The Commissioner Nance motioned to allow these
additional items to be added to the agenda. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carried.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC/PUBLIC APPEARANCE –
Colin Webster asked if the Board would be acceptable for the public comment
regarding his project (Carriage Hill) be made prior to the start of the public
hearing. The Board unanimously agreed to this request. No other comments were
made by the public.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA -
Commissioner Nance motioned to approve items a) Minutes from the March 1, 2021
Special Called Meeting and item b) Minutes from the February 15, 2021 Regular
Meeting as listed on the consent agenda. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carries.
PUBLIC HEARING
CARRIAGE HILL PROJECT – Town Planner Kathy Liles started the hearing by
describing the petition request made by Colin Webster of Grosvenor Land, LLC to
grant conditionally zone LRK# 00006712 from R-20 to R-10-CZ to allow the
construction of fifty four (54) single family detached dwellings on 15.76 acres
of land. Te parcel is situated between S. McNeill Street and Pinehurst Avenue.
The applicant requests the consideration of the board on the following
conditions:
A reduction of minimum lot dimension to 5,175 square foot lots.
Reduction in setback lines to allow a 20’ front setback, 5’ side setback and
15’ rear setbacks.
To allow one (1) more dwelling (total 54) than what the density requirements
are for R-10 zoning.
Mayor Chalflinch opened the floor to public comment and instructed each speaker
to keep their comments to a maximum length of three minutes.
First to speak was Chris Lassiter (Chair of the Planning Board) and he voiced
the Planning Board’s many concerns about the amount of development they are
seeing in Carthage but specifically the density being proposed by the Carriage
Hill development. The Planning Board conducted a public meeting on March 1,
2021, and by unanimous vote recommended against the rezoning of the property,
finding it inconsistent with the surrounding residential area. Mr. Lassiter
also cited the concern with an increase in vehicle traffic that would occur
within the development. The Planning Board feels that there are other areas in
Carthage where this type of project would be better suited to be developed in
this way. The Planning Board is also concerned with the lack of recreational
space included in this development. The Planning Board would prefer to see a
development that residents would enjoy, and the Planning Board strives to think
of the “bigger picture” and the long-term effect of such dense development.
Resident Kim Livengood spoke next and stated that she and other members of the
community surrounding this development agree with the points made by the
Planning Board. She reiterated that she believes the proposed dwellings are too
close together, that there is a lack of recreational space in the proposed
development and that there are other areas of town where this would be better
suited.
Willie Joe Vaughn, the owner of the property in question, spoke to the Board
and urged them to consider the zoning change due to the benefit of this
property having two access points, one on S. McNeill Street and the other on
Pinehurst Ave. He believes that the time has come for Carthage to begin
progressing and moving forward with growth. Mr. Vaughn also stated that denying
the rezoning request would lead to fewer homes built on the land and that this
could cause the price of the homes to increase, diminishing the possibility of
affordable single-family housing in Carthage.
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, suggested an instead of including sidewalks on each
side of the street inside the Carriage Hill community perhaps the Board and Mr.
Webster would consider including only one sidewalk inside the community and put
the additional funds for the cancelled sidewalk into a new sidewalk location
along Pinehurst Avenue so that the Town could more easily connect the residents
of the development to walkable access to Nancy Kiser park and Lake Luke Marion
and accommodate more recreational space.
Colin Webster, developer with Grosvenor Land, LLC, spoke next and he believes
that as a long-time citizen of Moore County that he fully understands the type
of residential development that works best I our unique area. With the recent
growth in Moore County and the county’s preference to concentrate growth inside
of municipal centers to maintain the rural landscape outside of them Mr.
Webster believes his project aligns well with this. Mr. Webster cited that
there are two main ways for Carthage to make the money necessary to cover our
expenses as a town; raise taxes or allow some degree of growth. He also stated
that the request to rezone the property to R-lO-CZ does not guarantee that he
will be able to fit all 54 homes on the property and there is a possibility it
could be less. He would also like to leave as much open space as possible for
residents to enjoy for recreation. Mr. Webster concluded with a statement that
he strongly believes in a partnership with the Town and that his development is
consistent with the character of Carthage and aligns with the county's policies
to develop the municipalities but that he will respect the decision of the
Board of Commissioners.
At the conclusion of the discussion, each Commissioner stated that they have
concerns regarding the development, specifically the proposed density, and the
shared concerns of the Planning Board and citizens who reside within that area.
Town Manager, Tom Robinson suggested that Mr. Webster work more directly with
the Planning Board to revise the plan to address these concerns and then
request to meet with the Board of Commissioners with the revised plan. Mayor
Chalflinch recommends that the Board continue the public hearing to the next
regular board meeting to be held April 19, 2021, at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald
Building. Commissioner Smith motions to continue the public hearing to the next
regular board meeting. The motion is seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All
ayes, motion passes.
LGC RESOLUTION/PUBLIC HEARING - As previously discussed, the Town of Carthage
desires to enter into a contract with Badger Meters for the purchase of water
meters known as Automatic Metering Infrastructure (AMI) and MeterSys for the
installation and management of the AMI to better serve the citizens of
Carthage. The approximate cost of the project is $715,000 with a life
expectancy of 15-20 years. Town Manager Tom Robinson clarified that every time
such a high amount of money is borrowed it must go through the Local Government
Commission to approve the application for financing of the project.
Commissioner Nance motioned to approve the LGC Resolution as presented. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes; motion carries.
OLD BUSINESS
During the Budget Workshop held March 13, 2021, the Board spoke of the
importance of the Needmore project and making sure that it has good local
leadership to be successful. The Board indicated that it wanted to create a
committee to carry forward the important work slated for this area while
recognizing those that have worked on the project during the last two and a
half years. Also, the Physical Activity and Nutrition Grant (PAN 359) grant
expires at the end of September and all work funded under the grant must be
completed by then. The Town is making a strong commitment to the Needmore
community, that although the grant ends, the work in Needmore will not. The
Town recognizes that there is still a Small Area Plan to implement, a pending
future road project and a park/garden to expand. The PAN grant dollars have
been used to buy some park equipment, a park sign, benches and walking trail
signage. All of these improvements are slated for installation in the spring.
The Town has completed a survey or the park/garden boundaries and did some
clearing of the site. Finer grading of the site will occur once the back side
of the site is dry enough to use equipment. Park activities will be focused on
the front of the property. The new layout is in the design phase. A sidewalk
from McReynolds Street to the park is proposed for consideration in the
upcoming budget cycle.
Joining the discussion tonight regarding the Needmore community plans are
Garland Dowdy. Garland Dowdy stated that he believes the committee members
should be comprised of Needmore residents or that the chair of the committee
should be a Needmore resident. Mr. Dowdy also stated that he believes the
citizens of Needmore would benefit from getting together to devise a plan for
that they can then bring to the board for discussion. The Board approved the
creation of this committee to carry these projects and plan forward within the
Needmore community. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy motioned to approve the creation of
this committee. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes.
Motion carries. 
Kathy explained that during the past several months Town staff has pursued
different options for what the PAN funding could be spent on during the last
pandemic year. Carthage resident and Needmore Project Assistant, Joanna King,
has continued to maintain communication with the Needmore community and to work
on the community garden but it has been difficult planning due to grant
restrictions on construction activities. The Board had concerns about how the
money will be spent and wants to ensure that the funds meet the wishes of the
Needmore residents and not just be spent on funding designs of what “could”
Town staff have continued to have discussions with DHHS, the source of the
funding and the Staff feel that a wayfinding plan would be a good use of these
funds. DHHS is not placing funding limits on the wayfinding plan and can direct
placement of signs throughout Carthage; not just within the Needmore community.
The County Manager has indicated that the county will be a willing participant
to assist in funding the wayfinding plan. The grant funding alone will not be
sufficient to pay for the work needed to be done for wayfinding. If the Town
chooses to pursue the wayfinding option, funding will be needed for improvement
to the Needmore garden and park. Town staff have discussed these two options
and wish to forward the decision to the Board of Commissioner. All final grant-
funded activities must be initiated and completed within the next six months.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to give approval to the Town staff and Town
Manager to seek cost estimates for a Wayfinding Plan and that the Town Manager
may apply grant funding to the Wayfinding plan along with coordination and
commitment from the County to assist financially with the implementation of
this plan. Motion seconded by Commissioner Nance. All ayes; motion carries.
MANAGER'S REPORT -
Town Manager Tom Robinson stated that Dorrie Dutton has left Carthage as Town
Clerk to take a position with the City of Southport. Mr. Robinson spent
considerable time in an effort to make the transition as smooth as possible.
Mr. Robinson also worked with Kesha Matthews to advertise the position and
interview candidates to fill the Town Clerk/Development Administrator position.
Mr. Robinson is happy to announce that Emily Yopp, a resident of Carthage, has
accepted the position and started work on March 13, 2021.
Along with Dorrie's departure there is a void in having someone to handle
zoning, subdivision and development questions. There has been discussion
regarding the need to hire a full-time town planner to alleviate having to
depend so much on the Clerk. Mr. Robinson is pleased to inform the board that
Kathy Liles has agreed to increase her hours with the Town to four days a week
and working from 10:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. most days. If for any reason Kathy
is unable to maintain this schedule, then Mr. Robinson will recommend hiring a
full-time planner.
The design for the sewer easements for the 16-inch sewer line project is now
complete and is under review by the State and USDA. The process is estimated to
take two or three months. There are five temporary or permanent sewer easements
that must be obtained before the USDA will allow the Town to bid this project
out. Mr. Robinson has been working with LKC, Town attorney Al Benshoff, Public
Works Director Allen Smith and Kathy Liles to start the process to obtain these
easements.
Kesha Matthews and Mr. Robinson have been working to complete the application
for financing approval from the Local Government Commission with the State. Al
Benshoff has provided a resolution for Board approval authorizing this project
and the borrowing of approximately $700,000 to cover the project's cost.
Mr. Robinson concluded with a statement that it is time for the Town to start
its preparation of next year's budget. Mr. Robinson has been working with all
the department heads to identify their budget needs for the coming year. Mr.
Robinson has also been working to identify Town priorities for the next five
years so that needed planning can take place.
NEW BUSINESS
Town Finance Manager, Kesha Matthews, explained that every year the Town's
accounts are audited as per N.C. General Statute 159-34 and N.C. General
Statute l 15C-447 and then submitted to the Secretary of the Local Government
Commission. Last year was the final year of the Town’s three year contract with
auditing firm S. Preston Douglas and Associates. Town Administration has been
pleased with Preston Douglas and Associates work and is asking that the Board
approve an extension of their contract to audit the Town's accounts for another
three years. Commissioner Smith motioned to approve the request to extend the
contract with Preston Douglas and Associates for another three years. Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries.
In the budget workshop the Board entertained the idea of adding a new position
in each of the Police, Fire and Public Works Department. In further discussion,
should the Board approve adding the positions, we ask that the budget
amendments #19 and #20 approve. Commissioner Smith motioned to approve budget
amendments #19 and #20. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries.
Dorrie Dutton had been appointed by the Town and the County to serve as a
Review Officer for Moure County. The role of the Review Officer is to review
maps prior to recordation to insure that they meet all state recording
requirements. With Ms. Dutton no longer an employee with the town this role is
unfilled. Town Manager Tom Robinson requests that Kathy Liles serve as the
Review Officer as she has previously served as a Review Officer for Moore
County and Aberdeen and is capable of filling this role for the Town of
Carthage. Commissioner Smith motioned to approve to send Kathy Liles to the
Moore County Board of Commissioners for appointment to the role of Review
Officer. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded this motion. All ayes; motion carries.
The Town requests that the Board consider the addition of a Public Work
maintenance worker to assist with town work as the development of Carthage
increases. Commissioner Smith motioned to approve the addition of an additional
Public Works Maintenance Technician. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. All ayes;
motion carries.
Town staff requests that the Board consider the addition of a Police Officer.
Town Manager Tom Robinson explained that with the addition of a new police
officer that a police car will be needed. There are a couple of vehicles that
were slated for auction, but the Town can hold one vehicle for the new
patrolman to use. Commissioner Nance motioned to approve the addition of a
police officer. Commissioner Barber seconded. All ayes; motion carries.
Town staff requests that the Board consider the addition of a Fire Captain
using the Safer Grant. Kesha Matthews spoke with a Safer Grant representative
this morning and confirmed that no costs accrued prior to receiving the grant
could be paid with grant monies, if awarded. The Safer Grant will only cover
costs after the grant is awarded and for a period of three (3) years. Grant
awards are announced every two weeks until the end of the grant period in
September. Commissioner Smith suggested hiring a new Fire Chief now and then,
if needed, use the Safer Grant, to hire two more fire department employees so
that their pay would be provided by the Safer Grant. It was reiterated to the
Board that once the Safer Grant funding the Town could not guarantee their
continued employment if the Town ends up not having the funds to pay for the
positions. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy asked the Town Manager if there were any
additional funds where the money could be trimmed to help cover the cost of
these fire fighters. Mr. Robinson stated that there is very little room to find
additional funds at this time. Commissioner Smith motioned to approve the
addition of a Fire Chief position using the Safer Grant funds if awarded.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded this motion. All ayes; motion carries.
The Town is planning to add a sidewalk in the Savannah’s Garden Neighborhood.
The Town received a quote for this work and the Town is asking that the Board
award the contract to Wilkes Grading. If the Board awards the contract we also
ask that they approve Budget Amendment #17 to pay for the work. Commissioner
Smith motioned to award the contract to install sidewalks in the Savannah’s
Garden neighborhood to Wilkes Grading. Commissioner Bonillo seconded this
motion. All ayes; motion carries.
Commissioner Smith motioned to approve budget amendment #17. Commissioner
Barber seconded. All ayes, motion carries.
The Town purchased a sewer camera to scope the sewer lines. Since using the
camera, Public Works has found areas where storm water is infiltrating into the
sewer manholes. The Board members were shown photos and videos of the water
infiltration at the Budget Workshop on March 13, 2021. The town staff have
received quotes to repair the manholes and stop the water infiltration. Town
staff is asking that the Board award the contract to replace pipe and
rehabilitate manholes to McFadden Homes, Inc. If the Board awards the contract
town staff asked that board also approve Budget Amendment #18 to pay for the
work. Commissioner Smith motion to approve awarding the contract to McFadden
Homes, Inc. Motion seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy. All ayes; motion carries.
Commissioner Barber motioned to approve budget amendment #18 to pay for the
work to repair the manholes to be done by McFadden Homes, Inc. Commissioner
Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS -
Historical Committee member Joanna King updated the Board on the Committee's
recent meeting. Joanna stated that the museum has been closed due to the COVID-
19 pandemic but that the committee wishes to have a grand re-opening during the
Carthage Buggy Festival this year. The committee has hired a cleaner to deep
clean the museum for the re-opening. In other business, the committee has been
working on a series of virtual exhibits for the museum' s Facebook page and
Joanna encourages everyone to visit their page to learn more.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS –
None.
CLOSING PRAYER –
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the closing prayer.
ADJOURNMENT –
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the meeting. Commissioner Nance
seconded. All ayes; motion carries. Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at
8:59 p.m.
APRIL 19, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 19, 2021
6:30 P.M.
The Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners held their regular meeting on
Monday, April 19, 2021, at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds
Street. Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy, and
Commissioners Al Barber, Dustin Smith, Dan Bonillo and Christopher Nance. Also
present were town staff members Tom Robinson (Town Manager), Emily Yopp (Town
Clerk), Kathy Liles (Town Planner), Kim Gibson (Customer Service Specialist),
Kesha Matthews (Finance Manager), Bart Davis (Police Chief), Brian Tyner (Fire
Chief), Allen Smith (Public Works Director).
I.   CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 P.M.
II.   INVOCATION:
Commissioner Barber gave the invocation.
III.    PLEGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Chalflinch led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance.
IV.   APPROVAL/CONFLICTS OF AGENDA ITEMS:
Mayor Chalflinch asked the Board to identify any conflicts with the agenda as
presented. Commissioner Smith stated that he had a conflict of interest with
agenda item X-A (Smith Annexation) as this was his property for which he was
seeking contiguous annexation into the Town of Carthage. With no other conflict
presented, Mayor Chalflinch called upon the Board to recuse Commissioner Smith
from the proceedings related to the Smith Annexation request and to approve the
agenda as presented. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to recuse Commissioner Smith
and accept all other agenda items; Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried.
V.    COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
Residents Joe Vaughn, Kim Livengood and Johnathan Watts had entered their names
upon the sign in sheet to speak to the Board on the topic of ‘Zoning’. Mayor
Chalflinch asked the public if they wished to speak their comments at this time
or if they would prefer to wait until the portion of the meeting for which they
wished to speak. The public chose to withhold comments until later in the
meeting.
VI.    APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA:
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the consent agenda. Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
VII.   PUBLIC APPEARANCE:
None.
VIII.    PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A. HAWTHORNE HILLS APARTMENTS – Town Planner, Kathy Liles, gave a PowerPoint
presentation and report explain the proposed resolution in support of
conditionally rezoning LRK# 20060254 from TBD to TBD-CZ to create a new
Conditional Zoning District for the Hawthorne Hills Apartments development. The
result of the proposed resolution is that it will limit the allowed uses such
that only an apartment complex will be built subject to specific conditions. In
this case the key deviations from the typical requirements of the TBD district
are 1) a maximum building height of 44’ instead of 35’ 2) a maximum building
length of 203.9’ instead of 150’ and 3) a maximum number of units per building
shall be 24 instead of 16. Chris Tingler of Cline Design and Mark Richardson of
Greenway Residential presented the preliminary plat showing the Hawthorne Hills
development to include a stone/mulch walking path flowing through the site and
open space for recreational use and a five-foot-wide concrete sidewalk along
the frontage of the development that will connect with sidewalks proposed by
the Bicycle and Pedestrian plan. Kathy Liles brought up some citizens’ concerns
voiced at the Planning Board in their last meeting regarding dirt/erosion along
the side of the development following a driveway type road leading into a
residential area. The Planning Board was supportive of there not being any more
erosion or damage caused to this driveway and asked that Greenway Residential
ensure that any erosion/damage caused be repaired by Greenway Residential.
Mayor Chalflinch opened the floor to public comment or opposition. No comments
were brought forth. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to close the public hearing
and move into Board discussion of the matter. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded.
Motion carried 5-0.
During the Board discussion on the matter of the approval of the resolution
Commissioner Bonillo asked for a summary of the Planning Board’s
recommendations regarding this project. Kathy Liles summarized the Planning
Board’s recommendations as requested and stated that Greenway Residential have
indeed altered their design to accommodate the Planning Board’s requests. With
discussion concluded Commissioner Nance motioned that the Board of
Commissioners adopt the Resolution of Land Use Plan Consistency, finding the
proposed rezoning to be consistent with the adopted land use plan and
reasonable and in the public interest. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. Motion
carried 5-0. Commissioner Bonillo motioned that the Board of Commissioners
approve the rezoning of LRK# 20060254 from TBD to TBD-CZ. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy
seconded. Motion carries 5-0. (Res. 20-10, Ord. 20-04)
IX. MANAGER’S REPORT:
Given by Town Manager, Tom Robinson
   Mr. Robinson summarized a plan to repave several roads in Carthage with
Chipseal that are in poor condition. The roads are Davis Street, Sanford
Street, Park Street, Westview Road, Degraffenreid Road and Sunset Drive. Mr.
Robinson explained that he was recently contacted by a UNC-G graduate student
regarding an internship with Carthage. She is pursuing a master’s degree of
Public Administration and would make a great asset to the Town during her
internship as well as gain valuable knowledge experience for her education. The
Board gave no objections. The Little River development is evolving. Some of the
first work to take place will be to improve the roadways and secondary fire
access such that two area of platted and recorded lots can be developed. Mr.
East intends to have a major housing developer start housing construction
within forty-five days. A revised master plan has been requested to show
revisions to the planned commercial village and medical complex among other
proposed developments. The sidewalk installation project at the entrance to
Savannah Garden subdivision will be proceeding and security cameras will be
installed throughout Nancy Kiser Park. The North Carolina General Assembly
passed a number of planning and development law amendments that are required to
be adopted by all N.C. jurisdictions no later than July 1, 2021. The Town
Manager would like to hire the Triangle J Council of Governments to assist in
completing the update to our Unified Development Ordinances for $4,000. Mr.
Robinson called on Kim Gibson to give a report on the status of the Buggy
Festival for 2021. Mrs. Gibson reported that the festival was coming together
nicely and that while we have not secured a beer/wine vendor for this year the
festival will be moving forward. Finally, Mr. Robinson explained that Town work
has been very heavy recently with new developments coming in, hiring a new
clerk and overseeing several initiatives to improve the economic standing of
Carthage.
X. NEW BUSINESS
   A. SMITH ANNEXATION: Commissioner R. Dustin Smith has petitioned the Town of
Carthage for voluntary contiguous annexation of 612 Summit Street further
identified as LRK# 00002010. Upon investigation of the request the Town Clerk
found that the request may be certified and presented the Certificate of
Sufficiency to the Board of Commissioners. Commissioner Bonillo made a motion
to 1) accept the petition for voluntary annexation #01-21 as requested by R.
Dustin Smith for 612 Summit St., 2) accept the Town Clerk’s Certificate of
Sufficiency, 3) adopt a resolution calling for Public Hearing at the next
regular meeting of the Board and 4) to place this item on the agenda for the
May 17, 2021, meeting. Commissioner Nance seconded. Motion carried 4-0.
Commissioner Smith was recused from voting due to conflict of interest.
   B. UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE (UDO) AMENDMENTS: Kathy Liles explained to
the Board that in 2019 and 2020 the State Legislature enacted significant
legislation affecting local governments know as 160D Amendments and they become
effective on January 1, 2021. These amendments include direction for local
governments to update their development codes by July 1, 2021, and their
comprehensive plans (if out of date) by 2022. Regardless of adoption the N.C.
statute is effective and controls, so it is important for the Town to make
their codes consistent with the statute to avoid any misdirection to the
public. These changes affect UDOs, stand-alone ordinances and municipal codes.
Town Administration staff have worked on some of the changes over the last two
years and the Triangle J Council of Governments (TJ COG) have assisted with the
rest of the changes. The TJ COG has now completed a draft and it is ready for
staff review. To start the process of adoption the Town staff wishes to take
the amendments to the Planning Board and the Board of Commissioners for their
May meetings which will ensure that Carthage meets the July 1st deadline.
Commissioner Smith motioned to set a public hearing for the adoption of the
160D amendments at the next regular Board meeting to be held on May 17, 2021.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded. Motion carried 5-0.
   C. LITTLE RIVER: Town staff recently met with Little River regarding their
ongoing redevelopment plan. The developer is currently refreshing existing
buildings and beginning site development for the approved final plats. The
developer would also like to begin revision of the approved PUD to incorporate
medical manufacturing a realign residential uses. The developer has not
submitted the revisions to Town staff as of yet as they are under discussion
with potential users of the property but requests a call for public hearing to
keep the project moving along in a timely manner. Town staff asks that the
Board call for public hearing but in the event the developer is not ready at
the time of the hearing the hearing can be continued. Commissioner Nance
motioned to set the Public Hearing date for an amendment to the Little River
Special Use Permit for the next regular meeting of the Board to be held on May
17, 2021. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. Motion carried 5-0.
D. RECORDS RETENTION: Town Clerk, Emily D. Yopp, presented a request to the
Board for their consideration regarding the adoption by reference of the N.C.
Records Retention and Disposition Schedule (RRS). Currently, each amendment or
change to the RRS must first be presented to the Board for adoption. The
adoption of the RRS by reference allows Town staff to implement changes quickly
at the time the amendments are made by the N.C. Department of Natural and
Cultural Resources, Division of Archives and Records. Commissioner Smith
motioned for the Board of Commissioners to approve the resolution declaring
that the Municipal Records Retention and Disposition Schedule be adopted by
reference for future updates and amendments. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. All
ayes; motion carried 5-0.
E. WAYFINDING PLANS: Kathy Liles summarized the proposed wayfinding and gave a
PowerPoint Presentation with example images. Previously the Board directed
staff to pursue a wayfinding plan in accordance with allowable expenses with
the Needmore Physical Activity and Nutrition Grant and the terms of the
Interlocal Agreement signed with the County during courthouse discussions after
Fred’s was removed from tax rolls. Staff has solicited three firms for
proposals to develop and implement a wayfinding signage plan, they are Alta
Planning (proposed cost $50,000), American Classic Signs (proposed cost
dependent upon contract details but estimate in the low $20,000 range) and
Bizzell Designs (proposed cost $14,300). Town staff is familiar with the work
of all three companies and is confident that any of the three are capable of
completing the job in the timeline required. Town staff requests that the Board
prioritize the three contractors for development of a scope of work and
contract. Commissioner Bonillo moved that the Board authorize the Town Manager
to refine a scope of work and negotiate and enter a contract with Bizzell
Designs for a wayfinding sign plan. Commissioner Nance seconded. All ayes,
motion carried 5-0.
F. BUDGET WORKSHOP: Town Manager, Tom Robinson, recommended to the Board that a
date be set to discuss the preliminary budget prior to finalization. Mr.
Robinson proposed to conduct the workshop at 5:30 P.M. on Monday, May 17, 2021,
one hour prior to the next Board meeting. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to
approve this date and time as presented. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded. All
ayes; motion carried 5-0.
G. FOREST RIDGE: Kathy Liles informed the Board of a request by David Chapman
to receive preliminary plat approval for Forest Ridge Phase Three on LRK#
00001192 for thirty lots on 68.16 acres. The project will connect to Forest
Ridge Phase Two at Timberwood Drive and have one point of ingress/egress.
Commissioner Nance motioned to approve the preliminary plat on the condition
that a note be included on the preliminary plat and final plats reflecting a
maximum built-upon area per lot of 40%. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. Motion
carried 5-0. Commissioner Bonillo motioned 1) that a preliminary plat be
provided that reflects NCDOT road design and drainage and 2) that a sidewalk is
not recommended for this development. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded. Both
motions passed 5-0. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy motioned that fire hydrant placement be
reflected on the preliminary plat consistent with the requirements of the Fire
Marshall and Fire Chief. Commissioner Nance seconded. Motion carried 5-0.
Commissioner Smith motioned that any future development of the site will
require a second point of ingress/egress or other mechanism as accepted by the
Fire Marshall. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. Motion carried 5-0.
XI. OLD BUSINESS
A. CARRIAGE HILLS: Kathy Liles presented a request to set a public hearing to
consider the modified proposed concept plan for conditional zoning as of Colin
Webster’s proposed Carriage Hills residential development. The public hearing
for Carriage Hills held at the April Board meeting was continued and Mr.
Webster advised to work with the Planning Board to modify the conceptual plan.
Mr. Webster will be presenting his revised plan at the Planning Board meeting
to be held Thursday, May 6, 2021 and the Board is encouraged to re-call the
public hearing for their regular May meeting giving proper public notice as
required. Mayor Chalflinch called upon the public in attendance and asked if
they wished to share any comments/concerns regarding Carriage Hills at this
time. Kim Livengood shared her comments/concerns regarding the development.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned that the Board reset the Public Hearing date for
the Carriage Hills Conditional Zoning for Monday, May 17, 2021. Commissioner
Barber seconded the motion. Motion carried 5-0.
B. COURTHOUSE PROJECT: Kathy Liles explained that Moore County has submitted a
site plan and construction drawing for the Courthouse Renovation project to
include parking lot modifications of the old Fred’s parking lot and a new lot
where the old Carthage Fire Department building is located and that they are
anxious to get started. She also shared with the Board that, while not
initially offered by the County, the Planning Board requested that the County
include bench seating around the landscape/water feature area to be built. In
the Planning Board meeting the county representative was concerned about
loitering in the area if seating were provided but the Planning Board felt that
this is an area that citizens should be able to enjoy and that the Town would
be able to police the area. There was an additional concern that while the
landscape tree requirement has been met in the plan for the old Fred’s parking
lot that the taller trees may obstruct the view of the mural. Discussion was
had by the Board regarding these plans and presented concerns and Commissioner
Nance asked that Town staff make a request to the County to include the
Carthage Appearance committee in the landscape design discussions. Commissioner
Bonillo motioned to approve the parking lots as proposed. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
seconded. Motion carried 5-0. Commissioner Bonillo further motioned that the
Board approve the Moore County courthouse site plans subject to additional
information being provided prior to finalization of the construction drawings.
C. BUGGY OFFICE PROJECT: As has been previously discussed the Town has been
working with Partners in Progress to develop an Entrepreneurial Center in
Carthage and the Tyson-Jones building has been tentatively selected to house
the center. The original estimates to rehabilitate the Tyson-Jones building and
reuse it for this purpose were approximately $800,000. Since obtaining the
original rehabilitation estimates the Town has sought additional details and
revisions to the estimate to include an elevator and fire sprinkler system to
ensure the building is flexible in accommodating other types of business.
Current estimates to do this are now at just over $1 million however the Town
Manager and Town Planner are concerned that actual costs could exceed this
number. Mr. Robinson further stated that the County Commissioners have tabled
the topic of this project which was planned to be discussed at their April 20th
meeting. The Town has also just received a letter from Dr. Barry O’Brien, Dean
of the UNC Pembroke School of Business, offering his department’s support in
this effort to bring an entrepreneurial center to Carthage as well as an offer
of monetary support in the amount of $100,000 from Mr. Dempsey, a $10,000 offer
of support from the Carthage Century Committee as well as interest expressed by
some of the local banks. However, the Town needs the support of the County
Commissioners and their agreement to be a co-applicant on this project. Mr.
Robinson asked that the Board consider increasing their portion of the
financial commitment to $60,000 in an effort to ensure that enough funds will
be available in the event that unexpected costs are accrued during the
rehabilitation of the Tyson-Jones building. Commissioner Nance motioned that
the Carthage Board of Commissioners commit to fund $60,000 in next year’s
annual budget as part of the required 20% matching fund for a US EDA grant for
the renovation of the Tyson-Jones building provided that Moore County also
provides $160,000 in matching funds for this purpose. Motion was seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo. Motion carried 5-0.
D. AMI METERING COMTRACT: Following two years of extensive research into the
feasibility of implementing an automated water meter infrastructure system
(AMI) to include a feasibility study conducted by MeterSYS, contracts review by
the Town’s attorney and approval from the Local Government Commission received
on April 13, 2021, the Town’s staff are requesting that the Board approve the
Town entering into three contracts to implement this system and approve and
ordinance establishing a Water Capital Improvements project. Mr. Robinson
further explained that implementing this metering system would reduce the
dangers of snake and insect bites faced by our Public Works staff from
infestation of the meter box and would provide our citizens with the ability to
repair leaking pipes on their properties as the new, cellular-read AMI system
would be able to detect leaks by providing 24-hour, real time monitoring with
leak warning notifications. The implementation of the AMI system would also not
increase the utility rates of the Town. Commissioner Smith motioned that the
Town of Carthage establish a Water Capital Improvement Project for the
implementation of the new Automatic Water Infrastructure System. Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy seconded. Motion carried 5-0. Commissioner Bonillo motioned that the Town
authroize the Mayor and Finance Director to enter into a fifteen year loan
agreement with BB&T (now Truist) for $715,000 for the cost assiciated with the
Advanced Meter Infrastructure project implementation. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. Motion carried 5-0. Commissioner Smith motioned that the
Town authorize the Mayor and Finance Director to enter into an agreement with
Badger Meters to purchase approximately 1,285 E-Series Ultrasonic Plus meters.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded. Motion carried 5-0. Commissioner Nance motioned
that the master agreement with MeterSYS be amended to provide for the program
management needed to implement the AMI system at a cost of $67,655 and further
that MeterSYS be hired to install the Badger E-Series meters for the Town at a
cost of approximately $86,162. The Mayor and Finance Director are authorized to
sign this amendment to the master agreement. Motion seconded by Commissioner
Smith. Motion carried 5-0.
XII. COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
C. CERRI WORKING GROUP: Volunteers of the CERRI working group met with the N.C.
Dept. Of Commerce on April 13, 2021 to discuss the Dept. Of Commerce’s
Diversity Report on Carthage. Reports shows that while Carthage surpasses the
nation in occupations such as educational instruction, healthcare support and
other occupations there are areas where Carthage is falling behind in
occupational diversity such as in computer/mathematical occupations, arts/
design/entertainment and architecture and engineering to name a few. To achieve
better economic stability the Dept. Of Commerce recommends that Carthage take
actions that would promote diverse occupational talent. Some members of the
group were concerned that not all of the data presented in the meeting was
accurate and asked that the Dept. Of Commerce adjust their data to give a more
accurate picture of Carthage. The group will compile additional data and share
it with the Dept. Of Commerce for their next meeting. The CERRI working group
will meet again on May 4, 2021, in the board room of the McDonald building.
B. CARTHAGE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL: After prior conversations regarding the poor
condition of the Carthage Elementary School the Board of Directors and the Town
Manager sought to create a meeting between members of the Town, the Moore
County Board of Education and the Moore County Commissioners. The Carthage
Century Committee has joined this effort in support of discussions to renovate
or replace the school. The Town Clerk has planned for the meeting to be held on
Friday, May 7, 2021 from 2:00 P.M. to 3:30 P.M. at the Moore County board room
in the historic courthouse. Expected attendees include Mr. Birath, Dr. Grimesey
and Chair Carter from the Board of Education; County Commissioners Quis, Graham
and County Manager Wayne Vest along with members of the Carthage Board of
Commissioners, Administrative staff and the Carthage Century Committee.
C. LAND USE PLAN UPDATE: Kathy Liles gave an oral report on the most recent
information given to the Town pertaining to the ongoing updates to the Carthage
Land Use Plan, the existing features of the area, such as current land use,
transportation networks and environmental constraints. Due to lack of
attendance at the April 14th meeting the steering committee along with the
Triangle J Council of Governments was unable to proceed with any
recommendations. The next meeting will be held on May 12th at 6:00 P.M. at the
McDonald Building and it will be imperative that the committee be able to
finalize a proposed land use plan map and address the Town’s density issues.
The steering committee needs strong attendance and increased public input via
the written surveys in order to have the Land Use Plan finalized before the
G.S. Chapter 160D amendments are adopted on July 1, 2021.
XIII. OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS:
Commissioner Bonillo asked for an update on the sewer expansion project. Town
Manager, Tom Robinson, informed the Board that we are still waiting for the
final authorization from the State and the U.S. Dept. Of Agriculture.
XIV. CLOSING PRAYER was given by Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy.
XI. CLOSED SESSION:
Mayor Chalflinch closed the open session of the meeting at 8:27 P.M. and
motioned that the Board enter into a closed session to discuss items authorized
under G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) and G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6). Commissioner Bonillo
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
MAY 17, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REGULAR MEETING
MAY 17,2021
6:30P.M.
CALL TO ORDER: 
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:41 p.m.
INVOCATION: 
Commissioner Nance gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy lead the room in the pledge of allegiance.
APPROVAL/CONFLICTS OF AGENDA ITEMS: 
None.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC
Mayor Chalflinch called on the members of the public who has signed up to speak
do so at this time. The speakers asked if they could wait until the public
hearing for Carriage Hill. The request was granted
by Mayor Chalflinch. Speaker sign-up sheet shall be attached to these minutes.
CONSENT AGENDA
All items listed on the consent agenda are considered routine and will be
enacted by one motion. No separate discussion will be held except on request of
a member of the Board of Commissioners.
Items listed on the consent agenda were A) approval of
the minutes from April 19, 2021 board meeting and B) Budget amendments
#26 and #27. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy motioned to approve the consent agenda.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
PUBLIC APPEARANCE: 
None.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
SMITH ANNEXATION:
 Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented to the board an Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits
of the Town of Carthage, North
Carolina. Commissioner Dustin Smith having petitioned the town for a
contiguous annexation of his property located at 612
Summit Street, identified by Land Record Key (LRK) #00002010. The
complete petition having been submitted to the Town Clerk on March 8, 2021 and
the Town Clerk having certified as sufficient said petition. Commissioner
Bonillo moved to approve the annexation of 612 Summit Street 
(LRK# 000020100) in the Town limits and approve Annexation ordinance ANX 01-
21, effective immediately. Motion was seconded
by Commissioner Nance. All ayes; motion carried 4-0.
AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE (UDO):
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, asked that this item be continued due to
final revision still needed. Commissioner Nance moved to continue the hearing
at the next regular meeting. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carried 4-0.
AMENDMENTS TO THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR LITTLE RIVER: Kathy Liles asked for
a continuation of the hearing as Little River developers are not ready to
present their amendments at this time. Commissioner Bonillo moved to continue
the hearing to the next regular board meeting.
Motion was seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
CARRIAGE HILL: Colin Webster presented materials on the Carriage Hill
development to the Board of Commissioners. Mr. Webster
asked the board to note that there was an error listing the existing zoning as
R-10 but in fact it is R-20, all lots are no less than 7,000 square feet in
size, number of lots have been reduced to 43, and lots have also been widened
and every fourth unit features access lanes for
emergency access; roads have also been widened. There are now fifty-one
parking spaces throughout the subdivision. A center island park has been added
after removing some of the homes. This increases the functionality and
quality of life for residents of Carriage Hill. The site plan being
submitted is an R-10 Conditional Zoning plan as Mr. Webster noted that he was
unable to keep the R-20 zoning. Mayor Chalflinch called on those residents who
had signed up to speak to the Carriage Hill project to take the floor. The
residents presented their comments to the board. Kathy Liles informed the Board
of Commissioners that as they deliberate on this matter, they will also need to
adopt a statement of land use consistency as the Planning
Board has not recommended an updated statement since the initial statement was issued as a recommendation
of denial. Commissioner Bonillo stated his concerns that the Carriage Hill
development was not submitted back to the Planning Board as directed in the prior continuance from the April 19, 2021 public hearing. Commissioner Bonillo further explained that he would like to see the Planning Board give a
statement on this development "as they are good at what they do". Mayor
Chalflinch closed the public hearing for Carriage Hill at 7:03 p.m. After
deliberation Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to give the Carriage Hill plan
back to the Planning Board so that they may review the development and issue a
Statement of Land Use Consistency. Commissioner Nance seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carries 4-0.
MANAGER'S REPORT
Tom Robinson presented to the board information regarding the successfully
completed 32 nd annual Buggy Festival and a summary of a meeting held between
himself, Kathy Liles, Mayor Chalflinch, Tommy Phillips of the Carthage Century
Committee, members of the Moore County Board of Education and County
Commissioners to discuss the condition of Carthage Elementary school and the
option to renovate or replace the school. Also presented were updates to the
AMI metering projects, personnel matters, the obtainment of water and sewer
easements for the expansion of the sewer line from McCaskill Road up N.C.
Highway 22 into Carthage proper. Mr. Robinson concluded with updates to
various matters related to planned and proposed developments in Carthage and an increased interest in development.
NEW BUSINESS
RESOLUTIONS OF INTENT
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp,
presented two Resolutions of Intent in Opposition to Senate Bill 349/
House Bill 401 and House Bill 496 restricting local government control in land use and planning/
zoning decisions as well as a Resolution of Intent in Opposition to the
language of House Bill 7: Protect City Employees from Retaliation.
Commissioner Barber moved to approve the Joint
Resolution of Intent in Opposition to Senate Bill  349/House Bill 401 and House
Bill  496 restricting local government control in land use and planning/zoning
decisions. Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy seconded this motion. All ayes, motion carries
4-0. Commissioner Nance moved to approve the Resolution of Intent in
Opposition to House Bill 7: Protect City Employees from Retaliation.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded this motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
ROTARY CLUB FOURTH OF JULY PARADE
The Rotary Club has requested that the board allow them to conduct their Fourth
of July parade this year through downtown Carthage. The board
unanimously voiced their support of the Rotary Club
conducting their annual Fourth of July parade. An application will need to be submitted by the Rotary Club.
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN PROJECT ACCOUNT
Signed into law by President Biden
on March 11, 2021 the American Rescue Plan allocates $1.9 trillion to COVID-19
relief and economic recovery. The Town of Carthage is expected to receive an
allocation estimated to be $750,000. The NC League of Municipalities and the NC Pandemic Recovery Office
advises against putting the ARP funds in the same accounts as operating funds so the Administrative staff is
asking that the board establish a project account to track expenses using these
funds. Commissioner Bonillo moved that the Town of Carthage establish a grant
project account to manage American Rescue Plan funds. Motion was
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Dowdy. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
OLD BUSINESS
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION (HPC)
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, informed the board that while a Historic Preservation
Commission ordinance was established a few years back it was never fully
staffed, and guidelines and procedures were not adopted.
With increased development occurring in Carthage, updates to the Land Use
Plan and new 160D amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance it may be
wise to revisit the HPC and offer guidance as to how strict or relaxed the
board feels the guidelines should be as staff works to further establish
the HPC. The board offered that
they would like to see the guidelines protect the historic structures in Carthage but
also be flexible enough for property owners to work with. Commissioner Bonillo
moved to allow the HPC to establish any needed UDO ordinances and move forward in the work required to protect
the historic structures of Carthage. Commissioner Nance seconded this motion.
All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
LAND USE PLAN UPDATE: Emily Yopp provided and update on the most recent
Land Use Plan steering committee meeting to the Board. The committee is
expecting to receive the final draft of the updated Land Use map by mid-June
at which time the committee will move forward in gathering public input.
OTHER BUSINESS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS
Mr. Robinson asked if the board would like to continue the budget meeting after
the regular meeting so as to set a date and time for
him to formally present the budget to the board. The board
agreed to reopen the special meeting regarding the budget.
CLOSING PRAYER: 
Commissioner Barber gave the closing prayer.
ADJOURNMENT: 
Commissioner Nance moved to adjourn the regular meeting of
the Board of Commissioners. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. All ayes, regular meeting adjourned at 7:
21 p.m.
MAY 17, 2021 (Budget)
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING - BUDGET WORK SESSION MAY 17, 2021
6:00P.M.
ATTENDANCE:
Present at the meeting were Mayor Chalflinch and Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy.
Commissioners Bonillo, Nance, and Barber. Town Manager Tom Robinson, Finance
Manager Kesha Matthews, Town Clerk Emily Yopp, and intern Jamie Sandoval. Also
present was Colin Webster for the Carriage Hill development.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
INVOCATION:
The invocation was given by Commissioner Nance.
PLEGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Lead by Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy.
APPROVAL/CONFLICTS OF AGENDA ITEMS:
None
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC:
None.
NEW BUSINESS
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, gave the board a summary of the current budget
standing. He stated that this budget was a difficult one this year as we are
currently $253,000 out of balance. The town is in good shape with the Water and
Sewer funds for next year. A copy of the General Fund revenues was given to the
Board and Mr. Robinson lead the board through the budget and explained areas
where the town has seen increases and decreases. Net total of revenues is only
showing a $30,000 to $40,000 increase so far this year. Mr. Robinson asked that
the Board give their input, either tonight or at a later budget session, on
changes to the budget that they would like to see for the upcoming fiscal year.
It was also noted that changes in retirement contributions were shown to have
increased making it difficult for the town to cover the expense of these
increases.
Mr. Robinson gave the board additional documentation outlining the operational
projections for current growth expectation for the Town’s water treatment
facility. A spreadsheet entitled Project Water Usage was also provided showing
the growth that is occurring in Carthage and how much additional water will be
generated by the water treatment facility as a result of the increased growth.
The town will need to seek proposals to replace the membrane filters to move
the capacity of the plant to the full one million gallons per day that it is
able to produce. Mr. Robison is also concerned that, should we experience a dry
period, Nick's Creek may not be able to supply enough water to meet the one
million gallons per day necessary. Mr. Robinson recommended that the town
consider beginning the search to find another source of water to ensure that
citizens will be provided with enough water in case of drought. Mr. Robinson
will be refining the revenue projections that will be generated by system
development fees to be paid to the town over the next budget cycle by
developers whose projects have been previously approved.
Sewer revenues have been budgeted conservatively. Mr. Robinson believes the
town will exceed the revenues he has forecasted. Mr. Robinson explained that
the board will need to consider an increase in staff as the town grows.
Proposed paving projects may need to be reduced in order to allow the town to
operate conservatively. Finance Manager, Kesha Matthews, is going to be reading
the terms and conditions of the American Recovery Act grant to see if any of
those funds can be used for paving projects or other projects that would
benefit the town or offset operating costs to allow more flexibility in this
year's budget. Capital improvements with respect to water and sewer have been
budgeted to include a second water tank, a raw water pump upgrade, and a lift
station among other projects.
It was noted that the special meeting had exceeded the thirty minutes allotted
and Mr. Robinson informed the board that they may continue the special meeting
after the regular meeting if the board wishes. The board agreed to continue the
special meeting after the regular meeting and Mayor Chalflinch called for a
continuance. The special meeting was closed at 6:40 p.m.
Mayor Chalflinch reopened the budget meeting at 7:21 p.m.
BUDGET PRESENTATION SESSION
Tom Robinson asked the board to set a date and time for the next budget
presentation meeting. The board agreed to set the meeting to Thursday, May 27th
at 6:30 p.m. to be held at the McDonald Building.   ·
ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Bonillo moved to adjourn the special meeting. Commissioner Nance
seconded. Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at 7:26 p.m.
MAY 27, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS SPECIAL CALLED MEETING MAY 27, 2021
6:30 P.M.
Call to Order
Mayor Pro-Tern Dowdy called the meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.
Invocation 
Commissioner Bonillo gave the opening prayer.
Pledge of Allegiance
Commissioner Smith lead the room in the pledge of allegiance.
New Business
A. Budget Work Session -Review the Draft Preliminary Budget for Fiscal Year
2021-2022 with Comments from the Board of Commissioners.
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, opened the discussion by summarizing some of the
key points of the draft budget and what areas the Board should focus their
consideration on this year. Mr. Robinson explained that there is approximately
$264,000 that is out of balance this year. The Board's attention was directed
to page five of the Draft FY 2021-2022 Town of Carthage Annual Budget where the
changes to this year's budget were reflected. One area of concern for the
budget are the new employee positions within the police and fire departments
that had been previously approved by the Board. Although both departments have
applied for grant funding to pay the salaries of these employees there is no
guarantee that the grants will be awarded to either department. Mr. Robinson
suggested that the Board delay the hiring of these positions as well as the
sidewalk installation at Old Glendon Road. Otherwise, the Town's only options
may be to fund these positions with a tax rate increase of two cents or to take
the money from the General Fund to cover the cost of these items, which Mr.
Robinson advises against. Commissioner Smith expressed his concerns for cutting
the fire and police department positions. Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy asked for
Commissioner Barber's thoughts on the matter and Commissioner Barber stated
that he is unsure at this time as to what the best choice would be and that,
while not a big fan of increasing the tax rate, he believes that an increase
could benefit the Town.
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy asked Mr. Robinson what has changed since the March
meeting where the budget was shown as being in good shape. Mr. Robinson
clarified that at that meeting, where the fire and police positions were voted
upon and approved, he had suggested that the grants could be used to fund these
positions if the Carthage police and fire departments were awarded the grant
money but that there was no guarantee they would be selected. Mr. Robinson
clarified that he did not suggest the use of the General Fund to fund these two
new positions and further clarified that at the meeting in March not all of
these increases were known at that time. Commissioner Bonillo asked Fire Chief
Brian Tyner to speak as to the status of the fire department as it pertains to
employees and operation. Chief Tyner explained the needs of the fire department
and stated that his department does need a full time Fire Captain but is also
aware that if the Safer Grant is awarded then the Town will have taken on a
financial burden for that position that the grant would have been able to
alleviate. The Safer Grant will not be awarded until September 2021 and it is
not known if Carthage will be a recipient. Chief Davis of the Carthage Police
Department also gave a summary of the status of his department as it pertains
to the employees and operation. Commissioner Bonillo asked what the feasibility
would be of using funds from the Reserve account to pay for these two
positions. Mr. Robinson stated that it is generally not advisable to fund staff
positions with the Reserve account.
Discussion was had with regard to how much a two-cent tax increase would bring
in revenue to the Town. Mr. Robinson stated that the Board could expect a
revenue increase of $24,000 for every penny added to the town tax rate. Mr.
Robinson stated his concerns that the economy could suffer a recession and if
that happens then the Town could lose additional revenue from the stoppage of
work to construct developments such as Little River, Hawthorne Hills and other
recently approved projects. Mr. Robinson informed the Board that they can only
raise taxes once a year and would need to vote to do so when the budget is
adopted; however, the Board could vote to approve expenditures from the General
Fund at any time of year. Commissioner Smith asked what the American Recovery
Act funds could be used for as it pertains to hiring an additional firefighter.
Kesha Matthews, Finance Manager, explained to the Board that the funds could
not be used to hire a new employee and that it is restricted to certain items
such as infrastructure improvements to water and sewer among other items.
Commissioner Bonillo asked where the Town's current tax rate falls with regard
to other towns. Mr. Robinson informed him that our tax rate falls in the middle
of the tax rates charged throughout the state.
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy stated that he would prefer to avoid raising taxes and
instead wait until September to find out if the Safer Grant would be awarded to
the Carthage Fire Department and then, if not awarded, the funds to pay for
both the police officer and fire captain should be taken from the General Fund
balance. Mr. Robinson explained that if this were done it is a strong
possibility that the Board would need to raise taxes in the next fiscal year to
cover the cost of having to pay for these positions this year from the General
Fund.
Discussion on the matter of how to fund the police and fire department staff
positions was postponed until after all other items were discussed.
The Board asked for clarification as to why the code enforcement company was
being sent out to inspect complaints versus a member of the police department.
It was discussed that using a paid town employee to perform code enforcement
tasks would be a cost saving as opposed to hiring a third party. The line item
for Contracted Services was discussed and it was explained that this expense
would be for contracting with a individual to clean the community buildings as
well as the administrative offices. Commissioner Smith stated his concern for
this expense and suggested that a firefighter or other town employee might be
willing to clean the buildings for the estimated $12,763 added onto their
salary. The Board discussed the remaining line expense line items.
The sidewalks proposed for the Needmore community (Old Glendon Road) are
estimated to be an expense of
$32,500. The Equipment-Cemetery line item covers the cost for various new
equipment for the Public Works department such as a lawn mower to more
efficiently cut the cemetery as it is difficult to mow in between the
headstones. The Park Maintenance for Needmore community is reflected at a
$7,000 expense; this covers the cost to make some improvements to the Needmore
Community Garden area. Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy asked what happened to the money
that was donated to the Town to maintain the cemetery. Mrs. Matthews and Mr.
Robinson explained that the interest that the donation was earning was
negligible but there is approximately $26,000 left.
Mr. Smith voiced his discontent for the suggestion to borrow money to pay for a
cemetery mower when the General Fund has funds available to be spent. Mr.
Robinson explained that typically municipalities try to operate on revenues so
as not to deplete the General Fund money. The state requires that the Town keep
no less than 8% of funds in the General Fund and we are currently at 30%.
Mayor Pro-tern Dowdy stated that if the sidewalk at Old Glendon Road were to be
removed from the budget he wishes to revisit the project in September.
Commissioner Bonillo asked when the last tax increase was. Mr. Robinson stated
it was approximately two or three years ago. Commissioner Bonillo stated he was
not happy to consider the option of backing out of hiring additional fire and
police staff, but he also is not supportive of a tax increase. He further
stated that if a tax increase were to be approved, he wants to ensure that the
citizens can see what their money is going towards.
Commissioner Bonillo asked that Mr. Robinson present in the next budget
workshop session the two options that received the most argument tonight, 1) to
hire the new employees and increase the taxes to pay for them, or 2) wait six
months and hire the employees using general fund money if the grants are not
awarded to the departments. Mr. Robinson thanked the Board for their input and
understands that the budget is a difficult conversation this year. Each Board
member made their closing comments.
Prior to adjournment the Board asked when the next budget session could be held
while still maintaining public notice and public hearing requirements as
required by G.S. 159-12. Mr. Robinson explained the statute requirements for
public notice as it pertains to budget statement and public hearing. Mr.
Robinson suggested that if the Board wished to meet again to discuss the budget
that the Town Clerk would send an email to the Board polling them for the best
days and times to hold the final budget work session.
Adjournment - Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the special meeting.
Mayor Pro-
tem Dowdy seconded. All ayes; motion carries. Meeting was adjourned at 8:
45 p.m.
JUNE 7, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS SPECIAL CALLED MEETING JUNE 7, 2021
6:30P.M.
ROLL CALL
Board Members Present:  Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-
Tern Milton Dowdy, Commissioners Dan Bonillo, and Al Barber. Commissioners Dustin Smith and Christopher Nance were not present.
Town Staff Present: 
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, Finance Manager Kesha Matthews, Town Clerk Emily Yopp, Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian Tyner and Public Works Director Allen Smith.
CALL TO ORDER
Meeting called to order by Mayor Chalflinch at 6:31 P.M.
BUDGET WORKSHOP SESSION
Town Manager Tom Robinson informed the board that the budget is balanced with
no property tax increase after reallocating some funds to different accounts.
The Moore County Fire Commission will be funding approximately $20,000 toward a
new fire captain position for the town. The option of using the General Fund
balance to pay for the three new staff positions if SAFER and COPS grant
funding is not awarded to the Town of Carthage was discussed. Tom Robinson
explained that if the board chooses to use the General Fund balance to pay for
these positions for this fiscal year it would most likely require a tax
increase in next year's budget so as not to continue to deplete the General
Fund balance year after year.
Upon request from the board, Fire Chief Brian Tyner explained his reasoning for
requesting a Fire Captain in this year's budget Chief Tyner assured the board
that if the new fire department positions were unable to be approved this year
that the Fire Department would be understanding and would do what is needed to
operate efficiently.
Mayor Chalflinch stated that he does not support raising taxes when the
possibility exists that the Town could get a grant to fund the extra positions.
Chief Davis explained that the COPS grant is only a 25% matching grant (not a
100% match) and that it would take up to a year for him to hire these extra
positions for the police department due to having other police officers going
through training at this time. Kesha Matthews, Finance Manager, passed out an
extra document titled Cost of Tax Increase for Citizens to the members of the
board to show them the breakdown of the tax increase if approved. This document
is attached to these minutes as Exhibit A.
Mayor Pro-Tern Dowdy and Commissioner Bonillo stated that they too would prefer
to wait until September-October to find out if the grants are received. In the
event the Town is not awarded the grants they stated their support to use the
General Fund balance to pay for the positions. They also stated their support
for raising taxes in a later fiscal year, if necessary. In closing, the Board
of Directors expressed their acceptance and support for the budget plan
outlined by Mr. Robinson.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to support the budget as presented in Mr.
Robinson's plan at this meeting and to recommend approval at the regular
meeting of the Board of Commissioners to be held on Monday, June 21, 2021.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes 3-0.
ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at 7:00 P.M.
JUNE 21, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 21, 2021
6:30P.M.
The regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners was cancelled due to a lack
of quorum. Commissioners unable to attend the meeting were
Dan Bonillo, Dustin Smith and Al Barber. The Town Clerk was present at the
meeting location (207 McReynolds St.) to post notice of the meeting's
cancellation and inform any attendees that arrived of the cancellation. A
cancellation notice was also posted to the Town of Carthage website and
Facebook page as well as sent to all members of the "Sunshine" list.
JUNE 30, 2021
MINUTES OF THE TOWN OF CARTHAGE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS SPECIAL MEETING
JUNE 30, 2021
6:30 P.M.
CALL TO ORDER –
Meeting called to order by Mayor Chalflinch at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION –
Commissioner Smith gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE –
Mayor Chalflinch lead the room in the pledge of allegiance.
ROLL CALL: Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Commissioner Dustin Smith, Commissioner Al
Barber were present in person. Attending by telephone was Commissioner
Christopher Nance. Commissioner Dan Bonillo was not present at the start of the
meeting but was on his way.
STAFF PRESENT: Town Manager Thomas Robinson, Town Clerk Emily Yopp, Town
Planner Kathy Liles, Intern Jamie Sandoval, Finance Manager Kesha Matthews,
Public Works Directors Allen Smith, Police Chief Bart Davis, Fire Chief Brian
Tyner and Customer Service Specialist Kim Gibson.
APPROVAL/CONFLICTS OF AGENDA ITEMS
Mayor Chalflinch asked public hearing applicant, Colin Webster, if the Board
may delay his hearing to allow time for Commissioner Bonillo to arrive to the
meeting. Mr. Webster gave his consent. The Board gave unanimous consent to
accept agenda as adjusted.
COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC 
Guy Putnam – Mr. Putnam presented photos to the Board depicting a design of
kneeling silhouettes in the images of a police and fire fighter. Mr. Putnam
would like to create the silhouettes out of wood and donate them to the town
for display at the police and/or fire stations whenever the town staff/board
saw fit to display them for holidays or in memoriam. Commissioner Smith made a
motion to accept Mr. Putnam’s donation. Commissioner Barber seconded the
motion. All ayes: motion carries. 3-0.
APPROVAL OF THE CONSENT AGENDA 
Minutes of the Special Meeting held May 17, 2021
Minutes of the Regular Meeting held May 17, 2021
Minutes of the Special Meeting held May 27, 2021
Minutes of the Special Meeting held June 7, 2021
Budget Amendment #28
Budget Amendment #29
Commissioner Smith made a motion to approve each consent agenda item.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes: motion carried 3-0.
PUBLIC APPEARANCE –
None.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
BUDGET FOR FY 2021-2022
Town Manager, Tom Robinson opened the public hearing with a statement of the
budget for FY 2021-2022. The floor was opened to public comment. No comments
were made by the public. Mayor Chalflinch closed the hearing at 6:46 p.m. The
floor was opened to board member deliberation. Commissioner Bonillo arrived to
the meeting during the deliberation period. Commissioner Smith motioned to
adopt the budget for fiscal year 2021-2022. Motion was seconded by Commissioner
Bonillo. All ayes: motion carried 4-0.
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE (UDO) PUBLIC HEARING
Kathy Liles began the public hearing with a presentation describing the new
160D amendments and how they will affect the town’s Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO). After Mrs. Liles’ presentation Mayor Chalflinch opened the
floor to public comment. No comments were made by the public. Mayor Chalflinch
closed the hearing at 6:42pm.
Motion #1: Commissioner Smith made a motion to approve that the 160D amendments
were consistent with the Town of Carthage Land Use Plan. Commissioner Barber
seconded the motion. All ayes: motion carries 3-0.
Motion #2: Commissioner Smith motioned to repeal the current Unified
Development Ordinance and adopt the amended Unified Development Ordinance as
presented. Motion was seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes: motion carries
3-0.
CARRIAGE HILL PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 7:00pm. Colin Webster presented
the plans for the Carriage Hill development to the board. Mr. Webster stated
that he spoke to adjoining property owner Johnathan Watts regarding his concern
of the installation of a landscape buffer to block the view of the development
from Mr. Watts’ property and felt that they had reached a consensus.
Commissioner Bonillo stated that he also spoke with Mr. Watts and did not get
the impression that Mr. Watts was, in fact, satisfied with the conversation
with Mr. Webster. Anton Sadovnikov, a member of the Town of Carthage Planning
Board, was called to speak on behalf of the Planning Board. Mr. Sadovnikov read
a statement on behalf of the Planning Board members.
Mr. Watts, who had signed up to speak during the hearing, was given the floor
and expressed his concerns and requests for the board’s consideration. Next,
Kim Livengood, who also signed up to speak, was given the floor. Citizen
comments were focused on concerns with the density that a rezoning to R-10-CZ
would bring to the area to include their opinions that it would increase
traffic on Pinehurst Avenue. Citizens that spoke voiced their support for
keeping the zoning as it currently is (R-20) which would allow approximately
twenty-four (24) homes to be built as opposed to the forty-three (43) being
proposed by Mr. Webster for the Carriage Hill development. Other concerns
voiced by Ms. Livengood were the town’s ability to maintain the roadways and
utility infrastructure if the town accepts the roadways and open spaces within
the development as requested by Mr. Webster.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, was then called on to speak. Mrs. Liles asked that
the board review the proposed conditions and Statement of Land Use Plan
Consistency carefully and then deliberate. Mrs. Liles passed out a zoning map
to the board members to assist them in seeing the surrounding zoning district.
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, also spoke to Mr. Webster’s development. He voiced
his concern with the open areas being dedicated to and maintained by the town
through the Public Works Department. Commissioner Bonillo asked Mr. Webster
what happened to the playground that was proposed at one point during the
design process. Mr. Robinson answered by informing the board that a playground
was not specifically discussed as a part of the approval process but was simply
suggested as an option for one of the open spaces within the development. Mayor
Chalflinch asked Mr. Webster’s opinion on the establishment of a Homeowner’s
Association (HOA) so that the property owners within the development would be
required to take care of the open spaces using dues collected by the
association.
Mr. Webster stated that he is not opposed to establishing an HOA but does not
feel it is a good idea for the area and type of development Carriage Hill will
be. Commissioner Bonillo asked Mr. Webster to clarify the proposal to use a
gravel material instead of concrete for a “sidewalk” along Pinehurst Avenue.
Mr. Webster informed the board that this option was discussed during the
Planning Board’s last meeting. In addition to this gravel material being used
instead of concrete the Planning Board recommended 1) that Mr. Webster design
easily managed and maintained green spaces for the residents of Carriage Hill;
2) that public access to those greenspaces be provided and 3) that Mr. Webster
ensure the protection of adjacent homeowners from water runoff and damage as a
result of construction.
Commissioner Bonillo asked the Town Manager what the tax revenue would be from
this development if it were approved. Mr. Robinson stated that there would be
approximately $49,000 per year in tax revenue from the Carriage Hill
development. Mr. Webster stated that the roads will be built to last for 20-25
years since they are being built to NC DOT standards and that they could last
longer if the town provides good maintenance for them. System development fees
to be paid will also support the town’s cost to maintain the greenspaces,
utilities and roads within Carriage Hill, should they be dedicated to the Town.
Commissioner Smith called upon the Fire, Police and Public Works Department
heads to share any concerns they may have with the development. Chief Tyner of
the Carthage Fire Department shared his concern with how close the homes will
be to each other if there were a fire. Commissioner Smith shared his concerns
with the town’s ability to maintain the greenspaces proposed if they are to be
dedicated to the town. Commissioner Smith also feels that a landscape buffer
should be installed between Mr. Watts’ property and the Carriage Hill
development. Commissioner Bonillo asked Mr. Watts what a suitable buffer would
be to satisfy his concerns. Mr. Watts explained that a 20’ wide buffer would be
ideal. Mr. Webster stated that, if Mr. Watts was amenable, Mr. Webster would
install landscaping on his property as opposed to installing landscaping on the
Carriage Hill side. Mr. Watts agreed to this but voiced that he is still
uncomfortable with the density.
Commissioner Bonillo recommended the addition of the following conditions: 1) A
buffer of landscaping using plants that will grow to at least six (6’) tall and
2) that an HOA be established, and association dues be collected to provide
management and care for the common areas within the development. At 8:12 p.m.
the board lost the call with Commissioner Nance. The call was reestablished by
8:14 p.m.
Mrs. Liles recommended a poll of the board to determine its position on the
project. The results of the poll are as follows:
Commissioner Bonillo: In favor.
Commissioner Smith: In favor.
Commissioner Barber: Not in favor.
Commissioner Nance: In favor.
At this point the meeting was paused as Commissioner Nance requested that the
board vote to excuse him from the meeting as he was having trouble hearing and
understanding the deliberations. Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to excuse
Commissioner Nance from the meeting. Commissioner Smith seconded. All ayes:
motion passed 3-0. Commissioner Nance was excused, and a count of the board
members present was made to confirm that a quorum still existed for voting
purposes. Quorum needed was four, there are three commissioners and the mayor
still present in person; a quorum is thus established.
Deliberation was closed and Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve the
rezoning of parcel ID 00006742 from R-20 to R-10-CZ with the addition of the
following conditions: 1) that all open, greenspace be well designed so that it
may be easily managed and 2) that a Homeowner’s Association be established and
that the association dues be used to maintain the common spaces within Carriage
Hill. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion.
The results of the vote are as follows:
Commissioner Bonillo – aye.
Commissioner Smith – aye.
Commissioner Barber - nay.
The Board of Commissioners asked if Mr. Webster would agree to all the
conditions presented to include the additions of two new conditions 1) A buffer
of landscaping using plants that will grow to at least six (6’) feet tall and
2) that a Homeowner’s Association (HOA) be established and that association
dues be collected to provide management and care for the common areas within
the development. Mr. Webster agreed to all conditions. Mayor Chalflinch closed
the public hearing 8:30 p.m.
MANAGER’S REPORT
Mr. Robinson presented the Manager’s Report. Mr. Robinson also stated that the
new draft Land Use Plan came in today from the Triangle J Council of
Governments. All boards/committees for the town will receive a copy and it will
be made available to the public as requested and via the town website
( www.townofcarthage.org). The Land Use Plan Steering Committee will be
reviewing the plan and taking steps to acquire public input on the plan prior
to Board of Commissioners and Planning Board voting to implement the plan.
NEW BUSINESS
RESOLUTION OF SUPPORT – Verification for the Town of Carthage Volunteer Fire
Department
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented the board with a resolution of support for
the Town of Carthage Volunteer Fire Department. Commissioner Smith moved to
approve the resolution of support. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion.
All ayes: motion carries 3-0. 
Commissioner Smith made a motion to allow a brief recess of the meeting.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes: motion carried 3-0.
Following this recess, the meeting was called back into order by Mayor
Chalflinch at 8:40 p.m.
OLD BUSINESS
LITTLE RIVER UPDATE/CONTINUATION OF PUBLIC HEARING
Kathy Liles opened the Little River portion of the meeting. Blaine East,
developer for Little River, was invited to take the floor. Mr. East stated that
he will be spending $1.6 million to renovate the golf course. There will be an
average home price of $425,000 within the Little River community. Mr. East is
confident that this project will create hundreds of construction jobs.
Residential areas within Little River will be single-family homes and
approximately 100 townhomes. Mr. East asked the board for a poll to identify
their overall opinion of the proposed medical village use within Little River
so that the developers may move forward in creating a plan and approaching
investors for the medical village. Through the poll the board agreed that they
were in support of the proposed medical village. Mr. East further explained
that there would be 30+ miles of trails throughout Little River that would
connect to Nick’s Creek and other areas. Mr. East explained that they are
currently under contract with Ameritage Homes for 600 single-family homesites
to be built over a period of years.
Mr. Robinson explained to the board that Little River only has approval for the
initial Planned Unit Development (PUD) and pods that were approved about 10
years ago. Staff is still awaiting the submittal of a master plan showing the
updated uses. Mr. Robinson explained that staff needs a preliminary plat to
review, traffic studies and any other necessary plats and plans and requests
that the Little River team come into the administrative office and meet with
the staff to discuss the plans for the pods prior to coming to the board in the
future. Town staff will need to sign off on the updated master plan as a
concept. Mr. Robinson further stated that he does not feel the board is in a
position to vote on this project at this time. A master plan is not being
approved at this time. Mr. East asked for a poll of the board to look at the
uses on the plan and to state their opinion on the uses.
The results of the poll are as follows:
Commissioner Bonillo – Aye.
Commissioner Smith – Aye.
Commissioner Barber – Aye.
After Mr. East and his associates were asked to work with the administrative
staff to prepare for any special use permit changes Commissioner Smith made a
motion to continue the public hearing for changes to the special use permit to
July 19, 2021 to begin at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald building. Commissioner
Barber seconded the motion. All ayes: motion carries 3-0.
COMMITTEE REPORTS AND BUSINESS
APPEARANCE COMMITTEE
APPOINTMENT OF JENNIFER DONOVAN TO THE COMMITTEE.
Commissioner Smith made a motion to appoint Jennifer Donovan to a three-year
term on the Appearance Committee. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All
ayes: motion carries 3-0.
FEEDBACK REGARDING THE COURTHOUSE PROJECT LANDSCAPING PLAN.
Town Clerk Emily Yopp explained that the feedback report from the Appearance
Committee had been included in the board’s packet.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS FROM COMMISSIONERS – None.
CLOSED SESSION 
With no other business to attend in the special meeting Commissioner Bonillo
motioned to close public portion of the meeting. Commissioner Smith seconded
the motion. All ayes: 3-0.
Commissioner Smith motioned to enter closed session. Commissioner Bonillo
seconded the motion. All ayes: vote 3-0. The Board of Commissioners entered
into closed session at 9:30pm
RESUME THE SPECIAL MEETING – Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to resume the
special meeting. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes: motion
carries 3-0. The special meeting was resumed at 9:48 p.m.
ADJOURNMENT –
With no other business brought before the board by the public or the town
council Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the special meeting.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes: motion carries 3-0. Meeting
was adjourned at 9:50 p.m.
_______________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
 
____________________________________
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk                  
                              
                     SEAL
JULY 19, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
JULY 19, 2021
ROLL CALL
Board Members Present: Al Barber (Commissioner), Jimmy Chalflinch (Mayor), Dan
Bonillo (Commissioner), Christopher Nance (Commissioner), Dustin Smith
(Commissioner).
Board Members Absent: Milton Dowdy (Mayor Pro-Tem)
Town Staff Present: Allen Smith (Director of Public Works), Bart Davis (Chief
of Police), Jamie Sandoval (Intern), Tom Robinson (Town Manager), Ben Hitchings
(Consultant, Green Heron Planning), Al Benshoff (Town Attorney), Kathy Liles
(Town Planner), Kesha Matthews (Finance Manager), Emily Yopp (Town Clerk/
Development Administrator).
Little River Team Present: Blaine East, Jess Dishner, and Debbie Bureau.
CALL TO ORDER:
The meeting was called to order by Mayor Chalflinch at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Mayor Chalflinch led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Barber led the room in the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA:
The agenda was approved as presented with no changes.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mayor Chalflinch opened the floor to public comments. There were no comments
made.
CONSENT AGENDA:
Commissioner Nance motioned to approve the consent agenda items as follows:
Minutes of the Regular Meeting cancelled on June 21, 2021.
Minutes of the Special Meeting that was held June 30, 2021.
Budget Amendment 1 – Ordinance to Amend Mathematical Error
Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
LITTLE RIVER SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP) QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING:
Mayor Chalflinch called the public hearing to order at 6:33 p.m. Blaine East
(Little River), Kathy Liles (Town Planner) and Tom Robinson (Town Manager) were
sworn in to give testimony.
Mr. Robinson introduced the public hearing by stating to the Board that the
Little River development team submitted to the Town Staff the application
requesting an amendment to the Special Use Permit on Thursday, July 15, 2021. A
meeting was held between Town Staff and the Little River Development team the
next day (Friday, July 16, 2021) to discuss the application in preparation for
the Board of Commissioner’s meeting the following Monday. Present at the
preview meeting were Tom Robinson, Kathy Liles, Ben Hitchings, Emily Yopp,
Blaine East, Debbie Bureau and Jess Dishner. The Little River team stated they
would like to amend the uses that were originally approved for the Little River
SUP. Mr. East’s attorneys have advised him to maintain his PUD zoning and not
seek conditional zoning, as recommended by Town Staff, to establish underlying
zoning districts. Mr. Robinson introduced Ben Hitchings, retired Planning
Director for Morrisville, N.C. and consultant with Green Heron Planning. Mr.
Robinson also explained that Attorney Benshoff was present tonight to ensure
that procedures required by the state of North Carolina’s regarding quasi-
judicial proceedings be adhered to as we progress through the process of
amending the SUP.
Next to speak was Kathy Liles, Town Planner. A history of the project was given
and stated that the Little River property was legislatively annexed into the
Town of Carthage in the late 1990s. The SUP was issued in 2006. It listed
project areas by “pods” along with the type of use and number of units allowed
within each “pod”. A Vested Rights Memo was given to the Little River
developers in early 2021 explaining which of the original rights were no longer
applicable and which ones are. Little River has divided the original “pods” up
a little bit differently to show a combination of commercial and retail uses.
The original PUD zoning approval is silent on some of the proposed uses being
requested tonight, such as the medical uses being proposed. The Little River
team is retaining the same number of housing units as previously approved, but
they have shifted the units around the area as seen in the proposed Master Plan
shown in “Exhibit A” attached to these minutes.
Blaine East was next to speak. He stated that this is a very large project and
agrees to do it correctly and as required. He is proposing to revise the master
plan of the existing PUD; however, they are not changing the uses that were
originally approved. Mr. East distributed binders to each board member as well
as the Town Clerk to be included in the permanent file. The binder and all
materials within it may be viewed at Town Hall and shall be titled “Little
River Office Copy” with the date of July 19, 2021, written on the cover page.
Mr. East directed the Board to reference page three (3) of the binder. He
further stated that he intends to bring all matters to the Board as required.
He clarified to the Board that his team is not bringing in different uses but
that they are simply utilizing the original uses and shifting them around the
plan. When referencing the proposed number of units in each phase Mr. East
clarified that these numbers are most likely in excess of what will be built
but that listing the highest amount allowed is recommended by Town Staff to
ensure that there is enough room for changes. Kathy Liles, Town Planner,
confirmed this to be an accurate statement.
Mr. East stated that he is looking for approval for the medical “pod”, the
residential resort village “pod” which features units taken from old “pods”
(Sarasota, etc.) and that have been reworked to make the residential resort
village “pod”. Mr. East clarified again that these units were already approved
in the original PUD and that they have simply been moved around and reworked.
Mr. East explained that phases 3, 4, and 5 have been “plugged” in as projected
numbers and that there will be a preliminary subdivision plan created and
brought before the Board of Commissioners as required. The retail village grew
from a smaller component to a larger one, however it is still within the
original PUD approval parameters. Little River will be laid out with proper
parking, utilities, and other infrastructure. They will be keeping the back 9
holes of the golf course, but the front 9 holes have been moved out because of
the proposed medical, residential, and recreational uses being presented. The
back 9 holes will serve as a golf academy. Each month Little River intends to
submit each phase of the project to the Board of Commissioners as they are
designed.
Mr. East also stated that he is asking for signage approval tonight. The first
sign to be built will be the major resort sign (reference page 9 of the Little
River July 19, 2021 Binder). Sign permits will be submitted to the Town staff.
The rest of the signs will be in the village retail area. Mr. East intends to
have the retail area completed by 2024 for the return of the U.S. Open to
Pinehurst. The medical uses will be submitted once all stakeholders are
confirmed.
There will be a major homeowner’s association (HOA) instituted to manage and
maintain the common spaces. Mr. East feels that the establishment of the HOA is
a good idea as he doesn’t want to burden the Town with the dedication of roads,
infrastructure, and street lighting. Streetlights will be leased, and energy
efficient LED lighting will be installed. Mr. East wants to make everything in
Little River as energy efficient as possible. Mr. East stated that Ameritage
will be building the residential units. Their company is out of Scottsdale,
Arizona and is number six in the nation. They will be building the first phase
of homes (approximately 88 homes total). Ameritage are energy efficient
builders which is important to Mr. East and the Little River development team.
Other builders will be brought in later for the custom-built homes being
proposed.
A construction entrance will be required in the back and for emergency uses. It
will be placed along on NC Highway 22. It will be paved once the Little River
project is completed. Mr. East will repair the main road to clubhouse per their
agreement with Ameritage. Mr. East doesn’t want to repave just yet due to
construction trucks and resulting damages from their use of the road. The
current road is being repaired and will be finished before the first homes are
to be sold. The road base does not need to be repaired on the main road.
Commissioner Bonillo asked when building is set to begin? Mr. East stated that
the first phase of homes will close in 45 days. Once closed, Ameritage will
start submitting building permits to Town staff. Next month, the Little River
team intends to return to the Board of Commissioners with final plats for
phases 2 and 3.
Commissioner Bonillo asked if any of the roads will be gated? Mr. East stated
that there will be a guard house but no gated roads. Mr. East stated that the
roads must be open due to the golf and retail component. The guard house will
be manned when there are events and when the village is built it will be manned
with a security guard to help secure the village.
Mr. Robinson asked if Mr. East would be submitting preliminary plats tonight.
Mr. East stated that he is not and that they will be brought before the Board
as they are prepared. Mr. Robinson asked the Town Planner if the Board can
approve a sign plan tonight as part of this process. Kathy Liles stated that we
must follow number 17 of section 100.59 of Unified Development Ordinance. The
UDO can be found on the town’s website at www.townofcarthage.org. Mr. East
explained that there will be twelve communities with twelve individual signs
and that they will be submitted to the Town staff and Board as required during
the process.
Mr. Robinson is unsure if the UDO sign provisions fully apply to the existing
PUD zoning. He explained that this is one of the reasons for Attorney Al
Benshoff and consultant Ben Hitching’s presence. Mr. Robinson further explained
that there are motions for the Board to consider. Blaine East indicated that
the TIA is being updated. NC DOT will need to sign off on the TIA as well. Mr.
Robinson explained that Kathy Liles and Ben Hitchings went in today and looked
at the UDO so that Town staff would be able to move the project forward with no
delays. However, Mr. Robinson is concerned that the proposal before the Board
tonight has not been properly reviewed.
Mr. East clarified that he is asking for approval of the master plan as
presented. He is not asking for changes and will bring any changes before Town
staff and the Board as required. Mr. East also stated that water/sewer capacity
has been given by the County and that he has a letter stating that the capacity
is approved and that it is sufficient to support the project. Mr. East stated
that he doesn’t want to say the Little River development team will allocate $3
million to pay for a sewer line unless it is needed later in the process. He
further stated that the Little River team doesn’t want to be burdened to pay
for a sewer line expansion.
Mr. Robinson stated to the Board that the county’s sewer capacity letter was
written in 2008 and that he would like to confirm that the letter and capacity
are still valid and available. Mr. Robinson further explained that the letter
of sewer capacity availability is the county’s validation and that it may not
apply to the Town’s responsibility to transport the sewage to the county
through the Town-owned 8” sewer line. The Town is reaching its maximum sewer
capacity and until an expansion is completed it is important to ensure the
timing aligns with regard to Little River coming online.
Mr. East explained that they won’t know sewer capacity needs until the “pods”
are fully designed. He understands the Town’s concerns on sewer capacity but
reiterated that he does not want Little River to be burdened with the cost to
add sewer capacity for the Town because that is a Town responsibility, not
Little River’s.
Mr. Robinson explained to Mr. East that if Little River were to come online, it
would take the entire capacity of the new 16-inch expansion line currently
beginning to start. These are issues that the Town wants to work out prior to
you coming online. Regarding density inside the “pods”, Mr. Robinson explained
that the copies of the original preliminary plats were too small to read and
exceeded the 5-year limit and are now expired. There are areas shown on the
proposed master plan with densities that are quite heavy. Mr. Robinson wants to
ensure that the Board is comfortable with the proposed densities.
Mr. East explained that the first 5 phases are all single-family residential
homes and recommends that the Board and staff view similar communities in
Raleigh or surrounding areas so that they can compare real life visuals against
the numbers on paper.
Mr. Robinson is concerned that the proposed 1,200 units is not ideal even
though Little River may not build to that number. Mr. East stated that the
original PUD stated that they are allowed up to 1,200 units. The densities of
each “pod” may shift, if needed, and will be brought before the Board for
approval.
Mr. Robinson shared his concerns that if the project as proposed does not come
to fruition, and the 1,200 units are approved, that the Little River team or
another developer could build whatever they want inside of Little River, even
if it deviates from the approved plans presented for this project by Little
River. Mr. Robinson recommended to the Board that the densities of the “pods”
not be transferred to other “pods” without Board approval first.
Commissioner Bonillo asked for clarification that Little River is seeking
approval of the master plan as presented tonight and nothing else. Mr. East
stated that this is correct. Kathy Liles explained that the Board is
considering PUD zoning language as if it still exists when in fact it does not
because the UDO has changed since the PUD for Little River was approved. She
explained that if we are considering original PUD standards then we need to
revert to original PUD language. Attorney Al Benshoff recommends including the
language from the original PUD. Kathy Liles presented the Board with a document
outlining conditions for approval of Mr. East’s proposed amendments to the SUP.
This document is submitted into these minutes as "Exhibit B-1".
Commissioner Nance asked if a motion was needed to approve putting the original
PUD language back into use for the hearing, a second motion to include the
additional uses and a third motion to approve the master plan as presented
tonight. Mr. Robinson answered “Yes”. Commissioner Nance asked if the master
plan has been reviewed by staff. Kathy Liles answered “No” and further
explained that the staff have not had time to fully review the plan and
application as it was presented only a few days prior to this meeting on
Thursday. Commissioner Nance, concerned that the Board is being asked for
approval on something the Town staff has not fully reviewed, asked if Mr. East
was given enough time to review the staff’s recommended conditions (referenced
in Exhibit B-1) prior to tonight’s meeting. Mr. East further stated to the
Board that because Little River was paid for in cash and there is no debt, that
if the economy goes bad in the next few years, Mr. East intends to build only
what the Little River team can until the economy adjusts itself.
Attorney Benshoff clarified to the room that Mr. East has applied for an
amendment to the original SUP. It states in the UDO that an amendment to an SUP
requires a list of considerations that must be evidenced in the record, these
are known as “findings of fact”. Mr. Benshoff stated that he can ask questions
pertaining to the proposed changes until the evidence is obtained tonight and
then the Board may make their motions. He further stated that he has heard here
tonight, from Kathy Liles and Tom Robinson, that the application was only
recently submitted and that there was no time for review. The staff recommended
conditions (Exhibit B-1) were written just today and completed at approximately
5:15 p.m., which the Little River team feels has not allowed them enough time
to review the conditions. Therefore, this evidence would not satisfy the
question of whether the application was submitted as complete and would not
satisfy the “findings of fact” requirement. Mr. Benshoff asked if the Board
would consider a continuation of the hearing to allow both parties review time.
Mr. East stated his concerns that if the hearing were to be continued Ameritage
may back out of the contract if delayed.
Attorney Benshoff asked the Town Clerk when the next meeting is scheduled to
take place. Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, responded that it is scheduled for August
24, 2021, but that this date was dependent on the Board’s decision in a
separate agenda item tonight for a street closure petition. She explained
stated that the Board may call a special meeting sooner if they wish. Attorney
Benshoff explained that it will take at least an hour to identify evidence, or
the Board can call a special meeting for a later date. The Board recommended to
Mr. East that they would consider calling a special meeting and that they
wished to pause this hearing and move it to the end of agenda so that they can
establish evidence as recommended by the attorney. Mr. East agreed to this
recommendation.
LITTLE RIVER PUBLIC HEARING, PART TWO:
The public hearing for the Little River Special Use Permit Amendment was
reinitiated at 8:42 p.m. Jess Dishner and Debbie Bureau of the Little River
team were sworn in so that they would be able to give testimony if needed.
Attorney Benshoff stated to the room that he would be following the regulations
outlined on page 36 of the Town of Carthage Unified Development Ordinance.
Kathy Liles stated that she wants to ensure we all agree on the same facts and
conditions as we move forward. Commissioner Nance asked for clarification on
the objective of the hearing and stated “Is the objective to approve the master
plan or amend the SUP?” Attorney Benshoff stated that this is an application
for a special use permit amendment. He then asked Mr. East to clarify what the
Board is being asked to amend. Mr. East stated that he is asking to amend the
master plan only, not the details of the master plan, only the conceptual uses.
Attorney Benshoff restated for the record that Mr. East’s only request is to
approve what is shown on the presentation board (a large copy of the proposed
master plan) being presented here tonight and in Exhibit A as included in these
minutes. Mr. Benshoff stated that he will ask questions about evidence needed
for the record of this public hearing.
Mr. Benshoff’s first question; are the uses requested on the conceptual master
plan presented here tonight among those listed as eligible uses in the table of
permitted uses? Kathy Liles answers that for the uses requested today there is
a slight difference of opinion. Medical “offices” were allowed by the original
PUD but not medical “uses” in the broader expanse of what is being proposed
here. Attorney Benshoff asked, “Would it work to have a condition that the uses
in the zoning district be amended?” Kathy Liles stated that she does not
believe this would work. Mr. East stated he is only looking for broad approval
of the uses. As per the proposed master plan, the Board would only be approving
the “medical village” as the proposed uses in the original PUD plan. Kathy
Liles referenced the original PUD document with the approved uses. Mr. East
asked for clarification on how the Town wishes to label the “uses” as it is not
clear in the original PUD. Attorney Benshoff asked if the definition of a
“medical use” is given in the 2009 Unified Development Ordinance. Mrs. Liles
answered that the bottom of the document lists “medical offices” but that she
is unsure if the proposed medical uses can be defined as “medical offices”. She
further stated that she is not comfortable including them. Mr. East asked if
those uses can be taken out to establish a comfort level. Mrs. Liles agreed
that if they were taken out the Town could make UDO amendments to allow them in
later. Mr. Robinson stated that Mr. East and his attorneys were insistent on
keeping the PUD zoning and that Mr. East had informed him that his attorneys
said it would ‘wipe out’ all PUD zoning and that the Little River developers
would lose any flexibility that PUD gives if Mr. East sought conditional
zoning. Mr. East stated that he would accept that medical manufacturing,
medical device manufacturing and pharmaceutical manufacturing be removed.
Attorney Benshoff explained that the Board is required to find that the
application is complete. Mrs. Liles stated that because she hasn’t reviewed the
UDO with Mr. East’s application due to lack of time, she has not been able to
fully inspect and approve the application. Mr. East stated that there are areas
in the new master plan that have not changed from the original approval.
Attorney Benshoff clarified that the Board is not being asked to adopt the
narrative submitted with the Special Use Permit Amendment Application
(reference Exhibit B); they are only being asked to adopt the master plan as
presented tonight. Kathy Liles stated that she believes the Board and staff
would then be reacting only to the information presented on the proposed master
plan which she feels places her in an awkward position because she would only
be approving half of an application.
Attorney Benshoff explained that there are seventeen findings of fact that the
Board must make and that must be supported in the record. If the Board cannot
make all seventeen findings, then the amendment to the SUP cannot be granted.
Mr. Benshoff suggested calling a special meeting in two weeks to give Town
staff time to review the application and the Little River team time to review
the staff recommended conditions given out tonight. Kathy Liles agreed that two
weeks would be enough time for her to review the application. Mr. Robinson
stated that Kathy Liles would be on vacation for next two weeks and that
consultant Ben Hitchings would need to be the prime person to work with Little
River team until she returns. Debbie Bureau, Little River team member, asked
why the Town staff was not comfortable with what was being presented here
tonight. Mr. Robinson stated that after speaking with Attorney Benshoff it was
found that the process for amending the SUP was not as simple as first thought.
Attorney Benshoff stated that conditions from the original PUD can be moved
over into conditional zoning approval so that the Little River team would not
lose their original uses. Mr. East stated that he does not want to postpone
this approval any longer and does not want to start over with a conditional
zoning process.
Attorney Benshoff stated again that if we move into the evidentiary phase of
the SUP hearing questions that everyone needs to be aware that there it has
been established that there is no evidence that the application is complete.
Mr. Benshoff clarified that without that evidence the Board cannot complete the
seventeen required findings and therefore cannot approve the amendment to the
SUP. Attorney Benshoff explained to all that, in North Carolina, the applicant
has the burden to present the Board with the evidence that is required to
approve an application. Mr. East stated that he feels that the application is
complete. Town staff stated that they feel that the application is not complete
because the narrative given to staff by the Little River team on Thursday has
not yet been reviewed and that any discrepancies found in the narrative have
not been discussed with the Little River team. Kathy Liles explained that
certain information and questions have not been asked or answered. Commissioner
Nance spoke to Mr. East and clarified that no one here dislikes the project but
that he supports conducting the hearing as legally required by state law.
Attorney Benshoff stated that, ideally, these discussions need to take place
prior to the Board meetingsand that the applicant should be able to show in the
application where the evidence can be found. Attorney Benshoff asked if the map
of the proposed master plan presented tonight meets all of the specifications
and requirements of the UDO. Kathy confirmed that it did.
Attorney Benshoff asked if there is any evidence that satisfactory arrangement
has been made for ingress/egress to the property? Mr. East stated that ingress/
egress is shown on the master plan and that it would be connected to NC Hwy.
22. Kathy Liles disagrees. She explains that there has been nothing submitted
to show that the roads within Little River are in satisfactory condition; these
are the types of matters that are needed in the application. Public Works
Director, Allen Smith, was called upon to speak to the condition of the roads.
He stated that according to the maps the Town has from previous development of
Little River the roads are shown as private. Mr. East asked how the Town can
require that private roads be approved. Kathy Liles answered Mr. East by
explaining that the Town’s planning responsibility requires that these roads be
approved, even if they are private. Mr. Robinson recommended that the NC DOT
review the roads that were permitted originally.
Attorney Benshoff stated that the standards for roads have been in place since
2004 and 2009 and that the Town is required to follow it.
Mr. East asked if Little River were to withdraw their request to seek an
amendment to the SUP permit and apply for conditional zoning would the same
seventeen findings of fact have to be made. Attorney Benshoff answered that
they would not as conditional zoning is a different process. Conditional zoning
follows a legislative hearing process, no findings of fact are required unlike
in a quasi-judicial hearing. Legislative hearings are less procedural, and the
Board has more flexibility.
Commissioner Nance asked if the applicant could withdraw his application for an
amendment to the SUP and resubmit for conditional zoning. Attorney Benshoff
answered yes, the applicant controls application. Mr. East asked if he could
withdraw the SUP application tonight and have a motion that the conditional
zoning be voted on tonight as well and bring the written conditional zoning
application to Town staff tomorrow? Attorney Benshoff stated that there are
public notice requirements that must be met and so it would not be possible to
approve a conditional zoning application in tonight’s meeting. Mr. Benshoff
suggested a discussion of the conditions that are going to come over from the
Little River vested rights.
Commissioner Barber asked if the Board could meet at the end of the two-week
public notice period. The Town Clerk clarified that the Board could meet on
August 7, 2021, at the earliest, due to legal ad deadline requirements for The
Pilot newspaper. Commissioner Bonillo requested that Mr. East deliver any
material to the Town staff for Board meetings in a timely manner and that the
date it was delivered be annotated on the documents. Mr. East and Town staff
agreed to annotate all submission dates on the documents. Mrs. Liles asked how
the Board and Mr. East wishes to proceed with regard to the $400 application
fee Mr. East already paid for the SUP amendment. Mr. East asked if the fee he
already paid for the SUP application could be applied to the new conditional
zoning permit application. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to waive the fee on
the conditional zoning application since it has already been paid with the
special use permit application. Commissioner Smith seconded this motion. All
ayes, motion carries 4-0.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to hold the special meeting on August 7, 2021, at
8:00 a.m. at the McDonald Building. Commissioner Nance seconded this motion.
All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
Mayor Chalflinch closed the public hearing at 9:30 p.m.
MANAGER’S REPORT:
None.
9(A). AUTHORIZING EMINENT DOMAIN
As part of the sewer expansion project, easements have been purchased by the
Town to provide the necessary right-of-way needed to run the new sewer lines.
The Town recently contracted with property owner Elizabeth H. Williams to
purchase 0.184 acres located at 6845 N.C. Highway 22 in Carthage. The owner was
agreeable to selling the property; however, the Town was unable to obtain good
title “free of any other liens, encumbrances or defects” and upon the advice of
the Town’s attorney, Al Benshoff, the contract was cancelled. So as not to
jeopardize the financing of the sewer expansion project the Town has been
advised by Mr. Benshoff to file an eminent domain complaint. As required by
state law, the purchase price for the 0.184 acres will be turned over to the
Moore County Clerk of Court and the court will decide how to allocate the
money. A resolution was presented to the Board by Mr. Benshoff and the title
for the 2/10ths of an acre has already been passed to Town ownership.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the Resolution Authorizing Eminent
Domain to Acquire Real Property. Commissioner Nance seconded the motion. All
ayes; motion carries 4-0. (Reference Exhibits C and D).
9(B). STREET CLOSURE FROM 2 ND AND 3 RD AVENUE
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented to the Board a petition to close 2 nd Avenue
and 3 rd Avenue, located on either side of Pinehurst Avenue in the area between
the Moore County Office Park and as recorded in map book 1, page 118 with the
Moore County Register of Deeds. These streets, while recorded, were never
constructed and are known as “paper roads”. The petitioner wishes to close the
roads so that he may acquire the land from the centerlines of 2 nd and 3 rd
Avenue so that he can meet setbacks as required by the Unified Development
Ordinance to build for himself a single-family residence. As required by N.C.
General Statute 160A-299, the resolution presented tonight, if adopted, must
run in The Pilot newspaper for four consecutive weeks prior to the public
hearing to close the streets. Mrs. Yopp asked the Board to consider
rescheduling the next regular meeting, set to take place on August 16, 2021 to
August 23, 2021 so that the four-week public notice requirement can be
satisfied and the petitioner does not have to wait until September for the
public hearing. (Reference “Exhibit E” as submitted as part of these minutes).
Commissioner Smith motioned to reschedule the next Board of Commissioners
meeting Monday, August 23, 2021. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carries 4-0. Note: The rescheduled meeting will be posted to the
Town website, Facebook page and the LED sign in front of the McDonald Building.
9(C). CONTRACT RENEWAL WITH REPUBLIC SERVICES
Town Finance Manager, Kesha Matthews, explained to the Board that the contract
with Republic Services to provide trash pick-up has expired. Tom Robinson and
Kesha Matthews met with representatives from Republic Services to discuss a
possible new contract. There is one change in the contract which includes
leaving the trash cans on the curb for businesses in town. The new contract
would also schedule pick-up of commercial trash on Friday afternoons;
residential pick-up would remain on Monday as it is now. Mrs. Matthews is
seeking approval to extend the Town’s contract with Republic Services for a 3-
year term. Commissioner Nance motions to approve the 3-year contract extension
with Republic Services. Commissioner Bonillo seconds the motion. All ayes,
motion carries 4-0. Reference “Exhibit F” as included in these minutes.
9(D). REQUEST TO CHANGE THE DATE OF THE CARTHAGE CHRISTMAS PARADE
Police Chief Bart Davis presented a request to the Board to consider changing
the date and time of the Carthage Christmas Parade due to safety concerns as
listed in the memo included in these minutes as “Exhibit G”. Concerns presented
to the Board by Chief Davis were 1) safety hazards for the motoring public,
parade participants, attendees and law enforcement officers due to poor
lighting in the dark hours; 2) the parade taking place at 6:00 p.m. during a
time when many citizens who work in Carthage are leaving to head home; and 3)
the start time of 6:00 p.m. makes it difficult for parade spectators to attend
which reduces participation and enjoyment. Chief Davis further explained
another concern he has with children running up to the side of the parade
floats in the dark and is concerned that a child may be injured. The Board
expressed their concerns with changing the date and time to include a break
with the tradition of the County sponsored tree lighting inside the historic
courthouse, loss of Union Pines band participation due to other daytime parades
taking place around the county, and that the lights will not be well seen
during the day as they are at night. Commissioner Bonillo recommended that a
poll be conducted on the Town’s Facebook page to gather citizens input on the
proposed change. After approval from the other Board members, Commissioner
Bonillo motioned to table the matter until after the poll. Commissioner Barber
seconded this motion. All ayes, motion to table the matter carries 4-0.
9(E). UPDATE ON SEWER CAPACITY
Attorney Al Benshoff addressed the Board and stated that Town Manager, Tom
Robinson, has provided a memo in the Board packet discussing the timeline for
the N.C. Highway 22 sewer expansion project (reference “Exhibit H”). Due to
delays and the price of construction materials increasing, an increase in cost
to the Town is expected. The estimated cost to the Town is approximately $1
million more than previously planned for. Mr. Robinson explained that the Town
staff, along with LKC Engineering, is in the process of applying for extra
funding with USDA. However, they have not indicated that they will help with
grants or loans. It is recommended that the Board proceed with bidding to keep
the project on track. The Board can reject the bids and reinitiate the bidding
process later if desired. Reference “Exhibit H” attached to these minutes.
At the budget workshop on March 15, 2021, it was discussed that it would be a
possibility that the Town could max out the sewer capacity if development
activity were to increase in the year 2021. Since that meeting in March,
development activity has indeed increased as predicted. Mr. Robinson introduced
Bill Lester and Mark Lacy, both present at the meeting, from LKC Engineering to
the Board. Mr. Robinson continued and stated there needs to be a second phase
of the sewer expansion project initiated and that the Board will need to
authorize the Town Manager to continue to work with LKC Engineering to continue
the design and engineering process for this phase two. LKC Engineering was
given the floor to present to the board a document titled “Phase 2 Sewer
Capacity Improvements” and entered into these minutes as “Exhibit H-1".
Mr. Robinson stated that we have received over $400,000 in funds from the
American Rescue Plan that can be allocated for phase two work for the sewer
expansion project. The Town will also be receiving an additional allotment of
funds of up to $800,000. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to proceed with the
second phase of the sewer capacity project. Commissioner Nance seconded the
motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
Mark Lacy (LKC Engineering) explained the document he just presented to the
Board would we need a special meeting of the Board called in order to open the
bidding process.
Phase 2 of the Sewer Expansion project would include upgraded pump stations and
force mains which would give approximately 750,000 gallon per day in additional
capacity so that the Town may continue with development activities in the
central area around downtown.
9(H). ACCEPTING AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN (ARP) ACT FUNDS
Kesha Matthews explained to the Board that, as part of the guidance received
for the use of ARP funds, it is required that the Board formally accept the
funds via an adopted resolution. Reference “Exhibit I” included in the minutes
of this meeting. Commissioner Smith motioned to approve the resolution
accepting American Recovery Plan funds. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the
motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0. 
9(I). TYSON AND JONES BUGGY BUILDING
Tom Robinson explained that after speaking with Natalie Hawkins, the Executive
Director of Partners in Progress it was agreed that the Tyson and Jones buggy
building may be too small for use as an entrepreneurial hub and that the
building may be better used for a restaurant or some other use. As the Town
researched the implementation of the entrepreneurial hub the costs kept
elevating and there was uncertainty surrounding the ability to work
productively with so many partners as proposed in the initial plan to
rehabilitate the building for use as an entrepreneurial hub. The Town has
received interest in the building from private developers. Mr. Robinson further
explained that it would be helpful to use historic preservation tax credits to
rehabilitate the building but that it must first receive landmark designation
from the National Park Service and State Historic Preservation Office.
Commissioner Smith moved to approve the Resolution in Support of Alternative
Uses for the Historic Tyson and Jones Buggy Factory Office Building.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
9(J). PARTICIPATION IN TJCOG GRANT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Tom Robinson explained that the Triangle J Council of Governments is offering a
grant assistance program. Reference “Exhibit K” included in these minutes for
more detail. Mr. Robinson believes it will greatly assist the Town to find more
grant funding by reducing the responsibility and workload for Town staff to
research, write and submit grants. The adopted 2021-2022 budget has funds
available for participation in this program. The cost to the Town will be
$4,000. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the Resolution of Commitment
to Participate in the Triangle J Council of Governments Fiscal Recovery and
Grant Assistance Program. Commissioner Barber seconds the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 4-0.
9(F). HOMETOWN STRONG COMMUNITY FOCUSED PARTNERSHIP
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, presented a memo the Board as referenced in
“Exhibit. L” of these minutes. The first meeting with the Hometown Strong team
is to be held August 10, 2021 at the Carthage Fire Station and will be an
online conference call. N.C. Representative McNeill’s office were also sent the
requests for participation. No Board action is needed on this item.
11. OTHER BUSINESS
Commissioner Smith addressed the Board with a concern that he did not remember
approving that the gravel road being installed as an emergency access behind
Town Hall for the developer of Southbury could be used as a construction
entrance. Commissioner Smith is concerned that the Town Hall parking lot may
become damaged with the increase in heavy construction traffic and is
dissatisfied with the trash and debris being left at the site and along this
access road. Both Police Chief Davis and Public Works Director Allen Smith
stated to the Board that they remembered a meeting where it was discussed as
being used as a construction entrance. The Board directed the Town Clerk to
research and locate the minutes of the meeting where this decision was
discussed. Commissioner Bonillo stated that regardless of the outcome of the
access road decision he wants the develop to clean up the trash and debris.
12. CLOSING PRAYER –
Commissioner Smith gave the closing prayer.
13. ADJOURNMENT –
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the meeting. Commissioner Barber
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0. Mayor Chalflinch adjourned
the meeting at 9:45 p.m.
___________________________________ ______________________________________
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk             Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
AUGUST 7, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7, 2021
8:00 A.M.
ROLL CALL:
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch and Commissioners Dan
Bonillo, Christopher Nance, Dustin Smith and Al Barber. Not present was Mayor
Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy.
Staff members present were Tom Robinson (Town Manager), Emily D. Yopp (Town
Clerk), Kathy Liles (Town Planner) and T.C. Morphis (Town Attorney).
Special guests present were Blaine East and Debbie Bureau of Little River
Development, LLC.
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 8:03 a.m.
INVOCATION:
Commissioner Smith led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Bonillo led the room in the pledge.
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 8:05 a.m.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, spoke first and described the purpose of the public
hearing. She clarified that the hearing was being held to consider conditional
zoning for the development of Little River. Currently, Little River is under an
approved PUD (Planned Use Development) that was approved in May 2006 with a
conditional zoning permit that had no expiration date. To modernize the permit
for today’s land use laws and practices and to bring over the same uses that
were approved in 2006 the applicant Blaine East, has applied for conditional
zoning. Another goal of this is to include some more specific uses that were
not originally listed in the 2006 PUD. The application will list parcel numbers
of all lots that will be affected by this zoning and will be included with the
minutes as part of the record and known as ‘Exhibit C’. The property consists
of +/- 678 acres bordered by US Highway 15-501, NC Highway 22 and Blues Siding
Road and known as Little River Farms. The owner is listed as Little River
Development Partners, LLC. There are lots within Little River that are held by
other owners. Kathy stated that some parcels will be grayed out because they
are still owned by other parties and that this new conditional zoning process
will not apply to the grayed-out areas as they are not a party to this
application.
The Little River is known a WS III watershed area. Any project within this type
of area is limited to a max of built upon area of 24%. The Little River
property also contains regulatory flood plain as well as a conservation
easement held by the Three Rivers Conservancy and consists of over 200 acres
following along the Little River. Anything that happens in that easement has to
be consistent with what the easement language says. Other than that, no
environmental regulatory concerns have been identified.
Mrs. Liles clarified that when the Town does a rezoning it is important to make
sure we look at the whole district for compatibility of the project within the
area. The Little River property is large enough to accommodate this project and
so staff is not flagging any problems right now where a spot zoning issue is
concerned. The Town must also consider the adopted Land Use Plan (LUP) when
weighing these decisions. The current LUP was adopted in 1999. As a part of
this consistency review there are seven (7) goals that the Town must consider
for any project. In the case of Little River, they’re project is consistent
with Goal #3, Goal #5, Goal #6, and Goal #7 of the 1999 LUP. The Planning Board
has also recommended that the project is consistent with the 1999 LUP and
further recommended approval with modifications to some of the conditions.
Mr. East was given the floor to speak to the project. He stated that he intends
for this project to be a quality project that will stand the test of time.
Stated his beliefs that Moore County and Carthage are ground zero for growth
opportunities and that he wants to be a good steward of the land that makes up
the Little River property. Mr. East stated that he is not in a rush and that
Little River Development, LLC wants to take their time and work with the town
boards. Would like the Board of Commissioners to adopt the master plan today as
the first step and submit phases to the boards with all details and development
to be done within them. Mr. East clarified that he is not asking for full
approval of each area of the project right now but is instead asking to start
the process of development with the adoption of the master plan presented
today. The project is unique in that it doesn’t fit perfectly within the Town’s
standards. Blaine is working closely with Three Rivers Conservancy to create a
trail system throughout the property and ensure the preservation of the
existing conservation easement. Mr. East stated that trails will be open to the
public. There is also a golf course of approximately 175 acres to be developed.
They will be maintaining the back nine holes of the course. Lots inside of
Little River feature beautiful terrain with bridges and bodies of water. The
golf course is being revitalized now. The retail uses within the project are
the second most important use and Mr. East understands and plans to implement
quality retail opportunities. Mr. East stated that he is not bringing “big box”
retail to Little River and instead will focus retail into a resort-style
shopping district with great retailers in smaller stores. As the pods/land
areas are submitted to the boards for approval more details will be available
as they are designed. Mr. East is also working closely with First Health on
what their needs are in order to help provide medical facilities to Moore
County. With regard to density, the old plan was comprised off townhomes
whereas the new plan features single family dwellings. There are also eleven
(11) barns that will be repurposed into an “artisan market” and farmer’s
market. A 3-tier driving range is to be installed as well as an amphitheater.
The amphitheater will be available for public and private use. Mr. East stated
that there has been many meetings with the town staff and boards so far to
identify the 32 conditions that would benefit both parties moving forward.
At this time, Mayor Chalflinch opened the floor to public comment. Cory Barnum
(sp?) asked about the McCaskill Road access and was concerned that there will
be an increase in traffic from Little River. Town Planner, Kathy Liles stated
that Little River will need to update their NCDOT Traffic Impact Assessment
(TIA) and that this update is also listed as a condition of the rezoning that
Little River have the TIA updated as needed. Mr. East stated that the community
will be golf cart friendly so that it will help reduce vehicle traffic within
the community. Next to speak was Don Green whose family owns property across
Highway 22. He expressed his support for the project and wanted to know what
impact the rezoning will have on the immediate area around Little River. Kathy
Liles explained that it is entirely possible that the Town will see infill
development requests in that area spurred by the Little River project. It does
have the potential to spin off more development depending on market forces.
Jason East, Mr. East’s son, spoke to his father’s passion for this project and
is developing Little River not for money but for quality. He described to the
Board the hard work and late hours his father has put in with regard to this
project and hopes to see the project move forward. A couple who owns a condo in
Little River, who travelled from the Philadelphia area this week, expressed
support for the project as well. They stated that they had intended to list
their condo for sale this week but decided not to in hopes that Little River
will be able to become developed. Mayor Chalflinch then closed the floor to
public comment.
Kathy Liles explained the conditions for board discussion and summarized each
one and its purpose. Mrs. Liles then introduced Town Attorney, TC Morphis, and
stated that he is here today to help the Board move through the legal process
of conditional zoning. Blaine East has offered to take the town board members
and staff on a tour of similar communities in the area and the town staff
intends to organize these tours prior to the adoption of the individual pods/
land areas so that the board members and staff can have a visual understanding
of the what the Little River communities could look like. The recommended
community is an Ameritage development known as Twelve Oaks in Apex. The density
standards being proposed today were given to Little River by Ameritage and so a
tour is recommended as being helpful to show what densities like this will look
like.
Kathy Liles also stated that the Board will be approving two signs today as
well as the conditional zoning. Both signs conform to the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) and are attached to these minutes as ‘Exhibit D’ and ‘Exhibit
E’.
Attorney Morphis asked the Board and Little River team when it will be required
for the recreational facilities be completed? Town staff and Little River
agreed to complete any recreational facilities within a phase before the last
permit is issued for that phase. Mr. Morphis asked to combine conditions 5 and
29 and all agreed that this should be done.
Kathy Liles stated the Planning Board has approved most conditions and that the
Board needs to focus on conditions 4, 23, and 32 specifically.
Condition #4: Kathy Liles explained that Principal Consultant, Ben Hitchings of
Green Heron Planning, who was hired by the Town to assist with this project,
recommended that we find a way to implement a shared use path and that the Wads
Creek trail (outlined on the master plan) be considered as the location for the
shared use path. Mr. East proposed a has six (6’) foot wide greenway trail that
could be done with a piece of mulching equipment and that this trail would run
through the Little River property along the Wads Creek path shown on the Master
Plan map. Along Highway 22, a shared use path will be needed, and the Town will
need an easement that is wide enough to accommodate the path. The shared use
path can be as small as eight (8’) feet wide with two (2’) feet on either side.
The preferred width is ten (10’) feet of surface material with two (2’) on each
side for shoulders. Kathy Liles stated that the board will need to gain
concurrence on which path will be required where and ask Little River to
reserve the Town an easement and give the details of that easement.
Blaine East stated that he doesn’t want to create a “roadway” through Little
River and feels that a six (6’) foot wide mulched trail is ample enough room to
have a shared use path as opposed to the Town’s proposed minimum width of ten
(10’) wide for the shared use path. Mr. East feels that a paved, extra wide
pathway would detract from the ambiance of Little River. Mrs. Liles stated that
it is important for the Town to create a trail system that can connect to other
trail systems and that will eventually connect the entirety of Moore County.
Town staff has recommended a twenty (20’) easement but Mr. East does not agree
with this size of an easement and prefers to consider a six (6’) wide easement
instead. Mr. East stated that he is open to modifications to the easements at a
later time, if needed, but does not want to commit to a large easement at this
time. Tom Robinson, Town Manager, explains that the intention of the wider
shared use path is to join the rest of Moore County in the development of an
interconnected trail system. He further explained that the Magnolia Hill
Apartments across the street has agreed to grant a twenty (20’) easement on
their side of N.C. Highway 22 and Mr. Robinson would like to see something
similar within Little River. Mr. Robinson stated that he understands that
nothing has been designed within Little River as of yet but would like to
ensure that the easement is in place early on to ensure that the Town of
Carthage will be able to connect Little River to the trail system.
T.C. Morphis, Town Attorney, explains that the width of the trail is not the
same as the easement and recommends that the Board of Commissioner’s discuss
the various needs of the easement as well as when the Town is going to get
these easements. Tom Robinson also stated that he wants to ensure that the
trails will have enough easement space available for the Town to be able to
provide emergency service access in the event there is a need for them deeper
within the trail system. Commissioner Bonillo asked if the trails are required
to meet ADA requirements and how this might affect the size of the easement.
Mr. East does not believe there is an ADA requirement. Kathy Liles stated that
if the local government were developing the trails that ADA compliance would
most likely be required. Mr. East explained that many private property lines
follow Wads Creek but that the creek moves its location over time and so Little
River Development, LLC will need to make sure the trail/easement stays on
Little River property. This would mean that the easement may not follow Wads
Creek the entire length of the trail.
Mayor Chalflinch called for a recess to the hearing and that the Board of
Commissioners would reconvene at 9:35 a.m. Mayor Chalflinch called the hearing
back into order at 9:44 a.m.
After the final deliberations the Board of Commissioners stated that they are
comfortable with a six (6’) feet wide, natural mulch trail within Little River
and a ten (10’) feet wide easement along Wads Creek.
Condition #23: Kathy Liles explained that ‘Condition #24’ of the originally
approved conditions listed in Fran Mullan’s email to the Town of Carthage and
dated May 11, 2006, states: “Carthage shall waive any/all sewer and water
connection and impact fees for all proposed connections up to a mutually agreed
upon value/amount ($200,000 minimum).”
Fran Mullin was an engineer for Schoor DePalma and the Little River project
back in 2006. Mr. East wants to ensure that the “impact fees” are recognized as
paid for from that time since Phase 1 water/sewer infrastructure was already
installed. Mr. East stated that the builder is typically the one to pay the tap
fees for water/sewer connections once the lot is sold and permitted for
development. Kathy Liles clarified for the Board that the question is how much
should the negotiated amount be, where does it apply and when does it apply?
Tom Robinson asked that the Board give town staff more time to research and
discuss the matter of the $200,000 credit as listed in the original approval
letter. Mr. Robinson explained that there were a series of grants that were
applied for in the 2004-2005 timeframe and one of them was for a matching grant
for $400,000 from The Rural Center. It was around that time that the $200,000
credit was approved but town staff is unsure if it has already been spent or
not which is why more time for research is requested. Mrs. Debbie Bureau stated
that the $200,000 credit was not used during the Phase 1 lots that are already
installed. She stated that those lots were developed by Colin Webster and that
Mr. Webster paid for the tap fees at that time and did not utilize the $200,000
credit. Mr. East further stated that he could find documentation to this point.
Mr. Robinson explained to the Board of Commissioners that The Rural Center sent
the Town of Carthage a letter attempting to require that the Town of Carthage
pay back the remainder of the grant that the first Little River corporation
defaulted on since as a result of not creating the number of jobs agreed upon
in The Rural Center contract. The outstanding amount is for $389,000. This
amount is still being held as an obligation against the Town by the Department
of Commerce. Tom Robinson recommended that the Board allow extra time to work
this condition out with Little River Development, LLC. Mr. East is amenable to
allowing town staff more time to research this matter but wanted to clarify
that this extra time would not delay Phase 1 development since the water/sewer
infrastructure is already installed. Mr. Robinson confirmed that this
additional time would only apply to Phases 2, 3, 4, and 5 and any additional
phases that may be proposed. Tom Robinson stated that the Town is in a
difficult situation with the expansion of the sewer line and the increased cost
of the expansion due to inflated prices of pipe and other necessary material.
Mr. East impressed upon that Board that the Little River project is a special
use district and therefore should not be responsible for paying for a sewer
line that the entire town would use. Tom Robinson explained that once Little
River is online their needs will double the amount of water and sewer
production/capacity which in turn comes with an increased cost to the Town of
Carthage.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, suggested the following language. “The Town will
work with the developer to seek State water and sewer incentives for commercial
and industrial uses. Tap fees and System Development Fees are waived for Phase
1. The Town will work with the developer to reach a mutually agreed upon offset
for system development fees in an amount up to $200,000 subject to approval by
the Board of Commissioners within ninety (90) days.” Debbie Bureau recommended
that “$200,000 minimum” be included as it was stated in the original PUD
approval. All agreed to this wording.
Condition #32. Tom Robinson explained to the Board that this condition
discusses the waiving of the Conditional Zoning fee that the Board of
Commissioners approved in the last meeting. It also discusses the payment of
the consultant fee of up to $10,000. The Board of Commissioners waived the
Conditional Zoning fee of $500 + $15/acre in their last meeting which would
have amounted to approximately $10,670 to be paid to the Town of Carthage. Mr.
Robinson further stated that Carthage has never experienced a development of
this scale and complexity and so he felt it was necessary to bring in a
consultant to help with the planning process. Mr. East explained that he and
his development team bought a property with permitted uses that were already in
place. Mr. East explained that the point of contention for Little River
Development, LLC is that the consultant was brought on without their knowledge
and that he began creating language and documents that deviated significantly
from the original PUD that was approved and is legally binding. Mr. East stated
that he wants to support the Town of Carthage in whatever way they can to
ensure that this project is successful but that all the studies that are
required just to develop Little River are expensive enough and that they are
paying their own consultants to bring the Town what is required by the Unified
Development Ordinance and the State’s rules.
Mr. Robinson stated that Ben Hitchings of Green Heron Planning was hired
because Mr. Robinson felt strongly that it would be in the best interests of
the Town and to ensure that every element of the project was well planned so as
to be successful. Mr. Hitchings came highly recommended by the Triangle J
Council of Governments and other contacts that Mr. Robinson reached out to. Ben
Hitchings was subsequently brought in due to his experience with large projects
similar to Little River as the town’s staff did not have current expertise in
this type of development. Tom Robinson stated to the Board that he felt
bringing Ben Hitchings on board to assist town staff was a good idea and
ensured a better project. Debbie Bureau stated to the Board of Commissioners
that she did not feel that Mr. Hitchings brought any additional help to the
project that town staff could not have provided on their own.
Attorney T.C. Morphis informed the Board of Commissioners that this is the
largest project going on in Moore County right now and that using someone like
Mr. Hitchings to assist in planning is recommended. Mr. East stated that Little
River Development, LLC does not want to pay the consultant fee. He further
stated that they have already paid $400 for the initial Special Use Permit. Mr.
Robinson stated to the Board that Mr. Hitchings fees could amount to
approximately $8,000 to $9,000 dollars. Commissioner Bonillo stated his concern
that waiving the fees for the consultant does a disservice to the taxpayers of
Carthage. Mr. East recommended that the Town of Carthage and Little River
Development, LLC split Mr. Hitchings’ billed amount 50/50 and up to $10,000.
The Board of Commissioners each gave their support for splitting the fee as
recommended by Mr. East. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to change the language
of condition #32 to state that Little River Development LLC would pay half of
the actual amount billed to the Town of Carthage by Ben Hitchings of Green
Heron Planning up to $10,000. Commissioner Nance seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 4-0.
Condition #5 and Condition #29 to be combined: Attorney T.C. Morphis
recommended that conditions 5 and 29 be combined. Mr. Morphis read aloud the
new language suggested and Mr. East agreed with the language as read. The exact
language was;
“The developer will submit a ‘Recreational Facilities Map’ showing all public
and private recreational facilities in the development prior to the issuance of
any building permits for Phase 2 of the developer (as shown on the Master Plan
submitted in July 2021). At least one recreational facility shall be designated
for each phase of the project. Recreational facilities may be designated for a
phase that are not physically located in the phase provided that said
facilities are physically located within the larger Little River development.
Prior to the issuance of the last building permit of each phase at least one
recreational facility designated for that phase will be completed and made
available for all owners within that phase. All public and private recreational
facilities identified in the Master Plan and the 'Recreational Facilities Map’
shall be completed on or before May 1, 2024.”
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adopt the project as presented today and that
it is consistent with the 1999 Land Use Plan as well as adopt the statement of
Land Use Plan consistency as presented. Commissioner Nance seconded the motion.
All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the conditional zoning permit
including the master plan, the proposed signs and all conditions as presented
and revised in this meeting. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 4-0.  
Mayor Chalflinch closed the public hearing at 10:39 a.m.
Commissioner Smith motioned to adjourn the meeting. Commissioner Nance seconded
the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0. The meeting was adjourned at 10:41
a.m.
List of Included Exhibits:
Exhibit A – 2021 Master Plan
Exhibit B – Map of Little River Resort by Hobbs, Upchurch & Associates, P.A.
Exhibit C – List of Affected Parcels
Exhibit D – Sketch of main Little River sign
Exhibit E – Sketch of a Village signage
________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
___________________________________
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk
AUGUST 23, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 23, 2021
6:30 P.M.
MINUTES
ROLL CALL
Board members present were Mayor Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy, Commissioners
Chris Nance, Dustin Smith and Al Barber. Commissioner Dan Bonillo attended via
telephone.
Staff members present were Kathy Liles (Town Planner), Emily Yopp (Town Clerk),
Tom Robinson (Town Manager), Jamie Sandoval (Administrative Assistant), Allen
Smith (Public Works Director), Bart Davis (Chief of Police), Brian Tyner (Fire
Chief), and Kesha Matthews (Finance Officer).
CALL TO ORDER –
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION –
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy gave the prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE-
Commissioner Nance led the room in the pledge.
APPROVAL/CONFLICT OF AGENDA ITEMS
Kathy Liles requested to add an additional item regarding the calling for
public hearing for applicant Stephen Rastelli. The Board gave unanimous
approval to add the item.
PUBLIC COMMENT –
None.
CONSENT AGENDA
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy motioned to approve the consent agenda as presented.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried 4-0.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
STREET CLOSURE: 2ND AND 3RD AVENUES
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:33 p.m.
Kathy Liles began by describing the petition submitted by Mark Dean to close 2
nd and 3 rd Avenues intersecting with Pinehurst Avenue. Mrs. Liles explained
that there is no record that the Town of Carthage had ever accepted the two
roads through dedication. As town staff researched the request it was found
that the roads are very old and date back to the early 1900s. It appears that 3
rd Avenue was incorporated into the County’s land which was previously owned by
Ren Electronics. County Attorney Stephen Lapping had contacted the town
administrative staff and explained that he had researched the deeds and that
the original developer had deeded the land consisting of 3 rd Avenue to his
heirs and that it was sold many times over after that. Mrs. Liles explained
that Mr. Lapping had identified a deed that references both streets
transferring ownership except where they were within town limits in 1955. There
is a large question about if the town ever acquired 2 nd Avenue and town staff
are still looking for the documentation to prove ownership by the Town.
Mrs. Liles further explained the reason for the petition to close 3 rd Avenue
was to allow Mark Dean, the applicant, the space needed to meet setbacks as
required by the Town of Carthage Unified Development Ordinance so that he may
build a reasonably sized home for himself. However, Mrs. Liles noted that Mr.
Dean can request variance to do this, and staff is requesting that the Board of
Commissioners consider this as an option instead.
Mark Dean was given the floor to speak to his request to close the streets and
his desire to build a home on Pinehurst Avenue. He stated that he was unaware
that this request would lead to so many issues for all parties involved. As a
result, Mr. Dean is officially withdrawing his request to close 3 rd Avenue
which lies next to the County’s property. However, his sister is now concerned
with the negative impacts that may occur if 2 nd Avenue were to remain open and
development of a subdivision or some other project were to take place that
would use that road as an access point.
Tom Robinson spoke to the matter and stated that this road could not be used as
a paved roadway because it is too narrow. However, it could be used as a
secondary fire access which would allow more than 29 houses to be developed and
meet ingress/egress standards. Mr. Dean stated that he would prefer that a
buffer be installed if the Grimm land were to ever be developed. Town Clerk,
Emily Yopp, read a letter submitted by Freddie M. Grimm who had requested that
it be read out loud for the record. Mrs. Mary Jane Grimm had also signed up to
speak to this matter. She expressed her concerns for losing an access point to
this land that connects to Pinehurst Avenue and expressed her hope that
something good may be developed on the Grimm land in the future.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy expressed his concerns with closing the street at this time
and how it might affect the Town in the future as well as the development of
the surrounding land. Commissioner Smith asked for clarification from Mr.
Robinson that 2 nd Avenue could only be developed as a fire access, not a paved
road. Mr. Robinson confirmed that this is a true and accurate statement. Mr.
Dean is happy to move forward with a variance to consider a change in the
setbacks to alleviate his hardships. Commissioner Smith motions to grant Mr.
Dean a public hearing with the Board of Adjustment to consider a variance for
parcel #0004190. Commissioner Nance seconded the motion. All ayes; motion
carries 4-0. Commissioner Smith motions to dismiss the petition to close 2nd
Avenue and 3rd Avenue intersecting with Pinehurst Avenue. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion passed 4-0. Mayor Chalflinch closed the
public hearing at 7:02 p.m.
MANAGER’S REPORT
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, described the difficulty the Town is experiencing
with the Phase One USDA 16-inch sewer line project. These difficulties include
an increase in pipe prices which have subsequently increased the price to the
Town to an additional $1.5 million to fund the project. There is also the issue
of the USDA not acquiring their next round of funding until October 2021 which
would delay the project to May 2023. Mr. Robinson also described the Town’s
need to expand the production of the water treatment facility. In addition, the
technology being used in the facility is outdated and would need to be updated
in order to increase water production to accommodate for the development that
Carthage is seeing. As an alternative, Mr. Robinson suggests an agreement with
Moore County to purchase up to 500,000 gallons of water to give the Town time
to work with the County to identify long term solutions to increase water
capacity.
The AMI water meter project is progressing. They are hoping to complete the
project by the end of October to early November. Census numbers are out, and
Carthage grew about 26% and has increased to about 2,775 people. Mr. Robinson
stated that it is not unreasonable to expect that the town’s population will
double in the next few years.
At the March budget retreat, it was planned that the Town would spend $142,000
to pave Pinehurst Avenue and Sunset Drive. The Fred Smith Company was chosen to
do the paving and a quote was given to Public Works Director, Allen Smith.
However, the Fred Smith Company has since increased their price to $245,000.
Town Attorney, Al Benshoff, was contacted to review the contracts to see if the
adjustment in price was legal. Mr. Benshoff did identify an area in the
contract that allows for the Fred Smith Company to make these changes. Mr.
Robinson suggested a motion to put the project up for bid again. Mayor-Pro-Tem
Dowdy motioned to send the paving project back out for bids. Commissioner
Barber seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0. Public Works
Director, Allen Smith, was asked to offer any comments he had on this matter.
He stated his dissatisfaction with the Fred Smith Company and how the contract
was not honored at its originally quoted price.
Mr. Robinson also updated the Board on the current progress of the Carthage
Elementary School Rehabilitation Committee and explained that Davenport
Lawrence, the Town’s IT service provider, is terminating their IT service
contract with the Town and that their services will end at the end of
September. Mr. Robinson explained that that town staff has already been
considering canceling their services and that there are multiple options
available to provide IT services such as hiring a local contractor or part-time
employee as well as other firms, like Davenport Lawrence. Mr. Robinson stated
that he will come back to the Board with some options at a later date.
CALL FOR PUBLIC HEARING - CARRIAGE PLACE TOWNHOMES
Applicant David Chapman is requesting a change to the original conditional
zoning granted December 2020 and would like for the Board of Commissioners to
consider his request to delete the community building and pool and replace them
with one (1) additional unit of six (6) townhomes for a total of 120 townhomes
instead of 114. Mr. Chapman would also like to offer $100,000 to be dedicated
to establishing a park to serve the Savannah Garden community as well as the
Carriage Place Townhomes. Commissioner Smith motioned to set the public hearing
for September 20, 2021 at 6:30 p.m. inside the McDonald Building at 207
McReynolds St. Commissioner Nance seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries
4-0.
LEGISLATURE CHANGES
Kathy Liles explained the new legislation that is being proposed in the
upcoming House Appropriations Bill. The proposed legislation changes affect
multiple areas of local government authority. The changes are included in these
minutes as ‘Exhibit 10’. Town staff suggested that, if the Board of
Commissioners have not changed their mind since the last time these legislation
changes were discussed, that they vote to authorize staff to send a letter to
county and state representatives reiterating the Board’s opposition to these
proposed legislative changes. Commissioner Nance motioned to allow town staff
to send another letter to county and state representatives stating their
opposition on behalf of the Board of Commissioners. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
TYSON TRAIL EXTENSION REQUEST
The Tyson Trail subdivision is reaching the end of its approval and no work has
taken place. The Town of Carthage Unified Development Ordinance states that if
no work has commenced within two (2) years of approval then the project’s
approval, sewer capacity, etc. Expires and the approval process will need to
start over. Richard Larson was advised that it would be in his best interest to
ask the Board of Commissioners for an extension. Mr. Larson is asking the Board
to grant him a one (1) year extension for the Tyson Trail project. Commissioner
Smith motioned to approve a one (1) year extension for the Tyson Trail project
as request by Richard Larson. Commissioner Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 4-0.
HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL FOR BUGGY BLDG AND WAYFINDING
Representative McNeill’s office reached out to town staff and asked for a list
of projects that the Town needs assistance with. Town staff gave a lengthy list
of projects to include the Tyson & Jones Buggy Office building and the
wayfinding sign plan. Town staff were informed that Carthage is now being
considered for a $600,000 grant to assist in rehabilitation of the Tyson &
Jones Buggy Office building and $50,000 grant to go toward the implementation
of the wayfinding sign plan. A draft sign plan with estimated costs is expected
to be completed by the end of September. The Tyson & Jones Buggy building grant
could be leveraged in many ways. Town staff recommended that the Board of
Commissioners take their time in considering these uses for the building once
submitted to them. Town Manager, Tom Robinson, explained to the Board that
there has been some interest in developing the building into a restaurant or
tavern or that the funds could be used to match an EDA grant for the building.
Mr. Robinson stated that he will reach out to the Department of Commerce for
other ideas and suggestions.
CARTHAGE CHRISTMAS PARADE
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, opened with a description of the safety concerns
presented to the Board at their last meeting by Police Chief B.A. Davis. The
Board had motioned for the Town Clerk to conduct a poll of the residents on
Facebook to gather their opinions on the matter. Mrs. Yopp has compiled the
results of the pool and they are included in these minutes.
Mayor Chalflinch asked that the Board consider leaving the parade date as the
first Tuesday in December for this year to give enough time to reserve parade
floats and the high school band. Tom Robinson spoke with County Manager Vest
and informed the Board that Mr. Vest was unsure why the County’s tree lighting
ceremony in the historic courthouse was held on that specific Tuesday in
December. Chief Davis explained his concerns to the Board again which included
the amount of time it takes law enforcement to get to their posts and the
barricades with the increased traffic, children running to the floats to get
candy, traffic jams, and the fact that the Christmas parade is the largest and
longest parade held by the Town. After deliberations, Commissioner Nance
motioned to leave the parade’s date for this year as the first Tuesday at 6:00
p.m. and to change the date to Saturday evening starting in the year 2022.
Commissioner Dowdy seconded this motion. Motion passes 3-1 with Commissioner
Barber voting in opposition. Commissioner Barber stated that he supported Chief
Davis’ request to change the date for this year and did not support waiting an
additional year.
REQUEST FOR PUBLIC HEARING
A request to conditionally rezone parcels #00003144 near Summitt Street and
#00003171 at 992 South McNeill Street from R-20 to RA-40-CZ to allow for
livestock came into the office last minute. The applicant is Stephen Rastelli.
Two public hearing will be had for each parcel. Two motions are needed to set
the hearing.
1) Commissioner Nance motioned to call for public hearing to consider the
conditional zoning of parcel #00003144 from R-20 to RA-4-CZ to be held on
September 20, 2021, at 6:30 p.m. inside the McDonald Building. Mayor Pro-Tem
Dowdy seconded. All ayes; motion passes 4-0.
2)Commissioner Barber motioned to call for public hearing to consider
conditionally zoning parcel #00003171 from R-20 to RA-40-CZ. Commissioner Nance
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
OTHER BUSINESS –
None.
ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Smith gave the closing prayer. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy motioned to
adjourn the meeting. Commissioner Nance seconded. All ayes; motion passes 4-0.
Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at 7:43 p.m.
______________________________________
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________________________
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk
SEPTEMBER 20, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 20, 2021
6:30 P.M.
ROLL CALL
Present: Commissioners Dan Bonillo, Dustin Smith, Chris Nance and Al Barber.
Mayor Pro Tem Milton T. Dowdy and Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch were also present.
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting was called to order by Mayor Chalflinch at 6:31 p.m.
APPROVAL/CONFLICT OF AGENDA ITEMS
Board unanimously accepts the agenda as presented with not changes.
CONSENT AGENDA
Commissioner Bonillo motions to approve the items listed on the consent agenda
as presented. Mayor Pro Tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries
5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Citizen Marc Phillips spoke on the availability of applications to add the
names of veterans to the Carthage Veteran’s Memorial.
MANAGER’S REPORT:
Town Manager Tom Robinson gave an update on the status of the AMI meter
project, the 16-inch sewer line expansion project, cancellation of the IT
support contract with Davenport Lawrence and the need to seek out either a
part-time IT employee or contractor to provide these services to the town
staff. Mr. Robinson also described a trip that town staff took with Blaine East
and Debbie Bureau of the Little River project to view 12 Oaks, a Meritage built
residential community in Holly Springs and The Boxyard, a unique commercial
development using salvaged cargo containers in Research Triangle Park.
NEW BUSINESS
Local Government Commission (LGC) Resolution – Tom Robinson explained that the
resolution being presented to the board tonight is needed to authorize the sale
of bonds and notes in connection with the issuance of revenue bonds by the Town
to finance the sewer line expansion project. The resolution further authorizes
the Town to do a bond anticipation note and authorizes the Town Manager and
Finance Officer to sign the LGC’s documents. Commissioner Bonillo motions to
adopt the resolution making certain findings and determination, authorizing the
filing of an application with the Local Government Commission and requesting
the Local Government Commission to sell bonds and notes at a private sale in
connection with the issuance of revenue bonds by the Town of Carthage.
Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 5-0.
Little River Tour – Tom Robinson gave a more detailed verbal report on the tour
taken by staff and Little River developers Blaine East and Debbie Bureau.
Pictures of the homes in 12 Oakes and cargo container spaces in The Boxyard
were displayed on the televisions to show what town staff saw on their tour
these locations. The Board of Commissioners were unable to attend the tour due
to scheduling conflicts, but town staff and Little River are happy to schedule
a trip again so that Board members may attend. Mr. Robinson gave a brief
summary of the tour; the quality of materials being used for the homes and the
density of the lots. Tom Robinson explained that the Three Rivers Land Trust
has denied Little River’s proposal to install trails through the conservation
easement held by the Trust. Blaine East and staff will need to revisit the
matter of trails through that area in a later meeting.
CALL FOR PUBLIC HEARING – Kathy Liles (Town Planner) presented applicant
Christopher Maxwell’s request for consideration of conditional zoning at 427
Vass-Carthage Road to allow private school uses. Commissioner Bonillo moves to
call for a public hearing on the matter and that it be held at the next regular
meeting of the Board of Commissioners on October 18, 2021, at 6:30 p.m. in the
McDonald Building. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes; motion
carries 5-0.
CALL FOR PUBLIC HEARING– Kathy Liles briefly presented the request of
applicants David and Helen Barker to conditionally rezone their properties from
RA-40 to R-20-CZ to allow for the subdivision of lots to create a family
manufactured home park. Commissioner Smith moves to call for public hearing of
this matter to be held at the next regular Board of Commissioners meeting to be
held October 18, 2021, at 6:30 p.m. in the McDonald Building. Commissioner
Nance seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 5-0.
MOORE COUNTY AIRPORT PRESENTATION – Airport representative Mike Jones presented
to the Board of Commissioners some exciting developments and plans for the
future of the Moore County Airport. The Moore County Airport is quickly
becoming an engine for economic development of local jobs such as pilots and
aviation technicians. The Airport is run by an Airport Authority. Moore County
Airport is the only airport that does not receive public funding. They do
30,000 operations a year, have 85 planes in hangars, 17 planes parked outside,
48 on the hangar wait list. Annual economic impact has grown to $93 million.
There are two different flight schools, hundreds of student pilots, an FAA
doctor on premise, etc. Mr. Jones described all of the events hosted at the
airport as well. The Airport has a joint relationship with Sandhills Community
College for the Professional Pilot program. The Airport is also rebranding to
attract new customers and opportunities. The Board thanked Mr. Jones for his
exciting presentation, and they look forward to seeing the great changes and
growth take place.
CIVIL AIR PATROL (CAP) YOUTH ORGANIZATION
Jennifer O’Connor, Squadron Commander of the local Civil Air Patrol chapter,
presented the next item and explained the mission of their program as well as
the history and impact that their program has in areas such as federal
government spending, the ability to provide rescue efforts, and other data. CAP
is a public service and operates with volunteers. The have the largest fleet of
Cesna aircraft in the world with 550 aircraft to provide search and rescue
operations and train cadets. Currently, they are 56 volunteers strong. The host
weekly meetings on Thursdays from 6 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. and are looking to
establish a permanent headquarters at Gilliam-McConnell Airport. Until then,
CAP is seeking community and town support to host their rapidly growing
squadron and weekly meetings somewhere in town until their permanent
headquarters is established at Gilliam-McConnell Airport. They are excited to
be establishing their program in the county seat. Commissioner Bonillo stated
that he would like to propose that the town make the Community Building
available to the CAP for the meetings until they are established at the
airfield. Town Manager, Tom Robinson, would like to meet with CAP to discuss
the use of the building, their needs and their schedule requirements.
EAGLE SCOUT PROJECT
Local Eagle Scout, Triston O’Connor, presented his proposal to bring bats to
the Nick’s Creek Reservoir to help reduce the mosquito population and instances
of human and livestock infection by mosquito borne illness. Mr. O’Connor
proposes to build and install 25 bat boxes within a 2-month time as Phase 1 of
this project and would be completed by December 20, 2021. Mr. O’Connor also
seeks to coordinate with Carthage Public Works to coordinate later phases of
bat box installations to expand the benefit throughout the area.
OLD BUSINESS
TYSON & JONES BUGGY BUILDING – Kathy Liles explained that the decision was made
not to rehabilitate the building for an entrepreneurial hub. Grace Lawrence
with the Department of Commerce has recommended some other options for the Town
to consider that the Tyson & Jones building. A preliminary meeting between town
staff and the UNC School of Government Downtown Finance Initiative has been
scheduled to collaborate on a marketing strategy for the building.
UPDATE ON PAVING PROJECT- Public Works Director, Allen Smith, updated the Board
on the progress of the paving project for Sunset Drive and part of Pinehurst
Avenue. Mr. Smith is waiting on two more proposals and is hoping to hear back
on those within a week. Mr. Robinson would like to bring to these proposals to
the Board at their October meeting.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT HEARING
A hearing has been scheduled for the Board of Adjustment this evening to hear
applicant Mark Dean’s request for a variance to reduce setback requirements to
allow him to build a custom home for himself. However, there are still some
items with the request that need further research and Kathy Liles requests that
the hearing be continued. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to continue the hearing
to the next meeting. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. All ayes; motion
carries 5-0.
CARRIAGE PLACE TOWNHOMES
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, presented the proposed modification to the
previously approved conditional zoning ordinance for the Carriage Place
Townhomes development. Applicant, David Chapman, is requesting to install an
additional 6 town home unit in Phase 1 to offset a contribution of $100,000 for
park development adjacent to Savannah Gardens Phase 2. This additional unit
would be built in place of the previously approved community center and
swimming pool. Mr. Chapman feels that a public park would be of more benefit to
the community than a private swimming pool for Carriage Place Townhome
residents only.
Mr. Chapman passed photos to the board showing the playground design and
equipment to be installed within the Carriage Place Townhomes property (see
Exhibit B). A community firepit will also be included. Mr. Chapman stated that
donating the land for the public park as part of the previous conditions but
also wishes to contribute enough money to make a difference in developing the
park to serve the public. Mr. Chapman further explained that over 350 homes
will be in this area and that the park could serve serve them all better than a
private use. Mr. Chapman also explained that, with the Covid-19 pandemic, the
costs of building have inflated and subsequently the profitablity of the
project has decreased. Mr. Chapman stated that having this additional building
would help him to balance out the cost of the project. Town Manager, Tom
Robinson, stated that he contacted representatives of D.R. Horton, the builder
for the project, and asked their opinion on the loss of the community center
and pool. The representatives confirmed the same concerns Mr. Chapman is
presenting tonight. Commissioner Bonillo feels the compromise of the park is a
good one. The Planning Board has also recommended approval of the amendment.
Commissioner Smith motioned to find the amendment consisten with the 1999 Land
Use Plan. Commissioner Bonillo seconded this motion. All ayes; motion carries
5-0. Commissioner Smith motioned to recommend approval of the conditional
zoning amendment to the Board of Commissioners. Commissioner Bonillo seconded
the motion. All ayes; motion carries 5-0.
CONDITIONAL ZONING OF PARCEL #00003144 FROM R-20 TO RA-40CZ
Applicant Stephen Rastelli is requesting the rezoning of parcel #00003144 from
R-20 to RA-40-CZ. The property is located between Summitt Street and Maple
Lane. The purpose of this request is to specifically condition the use of the
property to allow for agricultural uses while limiting any single-family
residential use such that manufactured homes would not be allowed.
There was considerable attendance of the public with regard to this hearing.
Mayor Chalflinch, prior to opening the hearing and in the interest of time,
requested that the members of the public who had signed up to speak during the
hearing consider the election of a few members from among themselves to speak
on behalf of the group or, if there was an attorney representing the group, to
have them speak. The members of the public expressed that those that signed up
to speak wished to speak to their concerns themselves and that they did not
wish to elect only a few speakers. Mayor Chalflinch acknowledged this request
and stated that there would be a strict time limit of three (3) minutes per
speaker.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, opened the hearing by explaining the process of
conditional zoning. She explained that the end result of a conditional zoning
hearing is an ordinance that runs with the land and sets forth specific and
binding conditions pertaining to what can or cannot occur on the property. Mr.
Rastelli’s request is akin to what is popularly known as “homesteading” and
that Mr. Rastelli wishes to keep small numbers of animals such as pigs, sheep,
goats, cows and chickens to feed his family, help naturally clear and maintain
the land and sell to the extra animals from breeding at market for meat or
other purposes. Mrs. Liles explained that swine of any type is not allowed in
town limits and that a moratorium has been placed by the state to halt swine
farms. Mr. Rastelli’s request to conditional zone #00003144 at Summitt Street
is considered a downzoning from R-20 to RA-40-CZ. Kathy explained that Mr.
Rastelli would agree to a condition prohibiting mobile homes on the property
since that caused citizen concerns the last time this parcel was up for
rezoning.
Kathy explained that the county’s sewer services run through the property and
that the property is rocky and wet and not suitable for development of housing
or many other uses. Mr. Rastelli’s proposal can be defined as “homesteading”.
Kathy read aloud the livestock ordinance. Ordinance would only allow for 37
animals based on the size of the lot. It was also clarified that zoning code
does not override town ordinances. The draft Land Use Plan that is pending
approval shows the area of this property as being zoned for R-20 to R-10
districts. However, the plan has not been adopted yet and so for the sake of
this hearing the Town must revert to the 1999 Land Use Plan. Kathy Liles
explains the definition of spot zoning and how it is used in zoning cases. The
Planning Board heard this matter at their meeting September 2, 2021 and
recommended it to the Board of Commissioner’s for approval. Kathy Liles read
aloud the staff’s recommended conditions for the board’s consideration.
Mr. Rastelli was given the floor to speak to his request to rezone the parcel.
He explained the history behind why he would like to use the property for
livestock uses to benefit the community to bring food to table on a more local
level. He further described the erosion occurring on the property and how the
property has not been used for over 100 years and has no real development value
due to its topography.
Mayor Chalflinch opened the floor to public comment. Citizens shared their
concerns for this request with the Board. It was reported by members of the
public during the public comment period that Mr. Rastelli is already keeping
livestock, to include pigs, at his home already. Town Clerk Emily Yopp had
received the same reports from members of the public on Friday and upon staff
investigation confirmed that the reports were found to be true.
After public comment ended the Board deliberated on the matter. Commissioner
Bonillo explained his position and that he believes a property owner has the
right to do what he wants on his property within the parameters of the
ordinances. He stated that he feels that allowing this rezoning and livestock
uses could be a detriment to the town and therefore does not agree with this
rezoning request.
Commissioner Smith spoke next and explained that as a representative of the
people, he commends Mr. Rastelli’s desire to practice sustainable farming but
that hecannot give his support to this request with so many citizens in
opposition.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy spoke next and stated that he was given an invitation to
visit the Ray and Charlene Barker at their home nearby the property in question
to hear their concerns and see the proximity between the parcels. Mr. Dowdy
explained his concerns for the property values of the surrounding property
owners if this request were to be approved and stated that he is not able to
support this request.
Commissioner Nance stated that his concerns mirror the other commissioners who
have spoken. Commissioner Barber stated that he too cannot support this request
and supports the zoning districts as they are now.
Mayor Chalflinch stated that, although he does not vote in this matter, he
commends the applicant for seeking a sustainable livelihood but that with so
many of the town’s people in opposition he could not support the request. Mayor
Chalflinch addressed the room and thanked the public for attending the meeting
and stated that he hopes the public shows this much support in defending
Carthage in the future as the town grows and experiences more development
pressure. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy stated that he received many phone calls
regarding this matter and that many of the questions he received were not
properly informed of the matter. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy encouraged the public to
reach out to Town Manager, Tom Robinson, and staff at the town hall to answer
questions and requests that the public utilize them in the future.
Commissioner Smith motioned to deny the conditional zoning request for
#00003144 and that the request is not consistent with the 1999 Land Use Plan.
Commissioner Nance seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
PUBLIC HEARING FOR 992 S. MCNEILL STREET (PARCE #00003171)
Kathy Liles opened the next public hearing to rezone #00003171 located at 992
S. McNeill Street. The applicant is also Stephen Rastelli and the property is
his primary residence. The hearing is for a straight rezoning to allow
livestock uses. Mr. Rastelli wishes to rezone the property from R-20 to RA-40-
CZ to allow the raising of goats and pasture pigs to forage the property as the
land is very wet and overgrown with invasive plants. The improvement in the
land will also allow Mr. Rastelli to halt the current erosion of the land and
prevent future erosion from occurring.
Applicant Stephen Rastelli was given the floor again to explain his request in
more detail. In reference to the previous hearing and the reports that he
already had pigs on this property, Mr. Rastelli explained that he was unaware
of the rules regarding livestock prior to getting them. There is a stream on
the property, and the while he was unaware of the rules, the livestock have
already started to improve the property. Mr. Rastelli has spoken with all his
surrounding neighbors, and they have expressed their support for his livestock
uses and his direct neighbor, Mr. Voss, has even given his permission to Mr.
Rastelli for grazing rights on his land. Mr. Rastelli explained that he made an
offer to the concerned citizens from the Summit Street area to visit his home
at 992 S. McNeill Street to view the livestock he has been keeping to see that
it is not the same as a “hog farm” and that it does not stink or have noxious
run off onto other properties. Mr. Rastelli stated that of all of the members
in opposition here tonight only two citizens took him up on the offer. Mayor
Chalflinch explained that he spoke with Mark Voss directly in regard to this
matter and that Mr. Voss did express his support of Mr. Rastelli’s proposed
uses for this property.
The Board asked Kathy Liles to show a map where the ETJ meets these surrounding
properties. Town Manager, Tom Robinson, explained that the corner property
where Pinehurst Avenue pplits off of McNeill Street is currently in a lawsuit
with the developer of the Carthage Family Apartments. There is also the Tyson’s
Trail subdivision to be built across the street.
Commissioner Bonillo explained that he is concerned about there not being
enough land for this use and that it will not coincide with the land use plan
for Carthage; however, he would like to find a way to support the proposal. Tom
Robinson explained that the pigs on the property will need to be addressed but
that the Board is able to grant a continuance on this matter if they feel that
more time is needed to consider this matter. Kathy Liles brought up to the
board that there are already RA-40 lots with livestock in town and that the
Board of Commissioners needs to consider the precedent of banning one and how
it could lead to banning all RA-40 parcels in town. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy stated
to the board that perhaps it would be a good idea for the board to consider
tightening up the code for future.
Commissioner Nance motioned that this request to rezone the property from R-20
to RA-40-CZ to allow livestock uses is not consistent with the 1999 Land Use
Plan. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes 5-0.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to deny the request to rezone from R-20 to RA-40-
CZ. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded to motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
Mr. Rastelli requested that Board consider delaying the enforcement of the
removal of his livestock at his property 992 S. McNeill Street due to his being
active-duty military and leaving the next day to go overseas for a month.
Commissioner Smith motioned that the Board honor this request for additional
time to allow Mr. Rastelli to return and find new homes for the animals.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
OTHER BUSINESS
Citizens Paul M. White presented the board with a list of streetlights that are
out of order throughout the town. Mr. White explained his belief that it takes
community involvement to beautify the town. The Town Clerk, Emily Yopp,
explained that the list presented to the Board would be given to Duke Progress
for repair work orders and that the Town has an Appearance Committee that would
love to attract new members and citizens are encouraged to join the committee
to keep up with issues such as these.
Tom Robinson explained that town staff is already working to improve and update
the town’s ordinances. He briefly described ACE Code Enforcement’s recommended
updates and that town staff will be meeting to discuss recommendations.
Commissioner Smith asked for an update on the status of grants for a Fire
Captain position. Mr. Robinson explained that staff is still awaiting grant
notification and won’t have an update until October.
ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn. Commissioner Nance seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0. Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at
9:43 p.m.
OCTOBER 11, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 11, 2021
6:30 P.M.
ROLL CALL
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch and Commissioners Dustin
Smith and Chris Nance with Commissioner Al Barber attending by telephone. Mayor
Pro-Tem Dowdy and Commissioner Bonillo were absent.
Staff members present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Emily D. Yopp
and Finance Director Kesha Matthews.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Dustin Smith led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Nance gave the pledge.
NEW BUSINESS
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, opened the discussion with an explanation of how a
quorum and voting is decided for the purposes of this meeting.
Mayor Chalflinch introduced the first item for consideration; a supplemental
bond order to authorize the issuance of water and sewer system revenue bonds.
Commissioner Chris Nance motioned to approve the supplemental order authorized
the issuance by the Town of Carthage, North Carolina of $3,448,000 of water and
sewer system revenue bonds to finance improvement to the Town’s water and
sanitary sewer systems and authorizing the execution and delivery of certain
documents in connection therewith. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Dustin Smith. All ayes, motion carries 3-0.
Mayor Chalflinch introduced the second item of business; a resolution providing
for the sale and issuance of a $3,448,000 water and sewer system revenue bond
anticipation note, series 2021.
Commissioner Smith motioned to approve the resolution providing for the sale
and issuance of a $3,448,000 water and sewer system revenue bond anticipation
note, series 2021. Commissioner Chris Nance seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carries 3-0.
Before the close of the meeting Town Manager, Tom Robinson, explained to the
Board of Commissioners that this is interim financing for the sewer expansion
project and that the bond will be taken out by the USDA at the completion of
the project.
ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Dustin Smith motioned to adjourned the meeting. Commissioner Chris
Nance seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0. Mayor Chalflinch
adjourned the meeting at 6:33 p.m.
                  
ATTEST                  Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
                  
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk
OCTOBER 18, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 18, 2021
6:30 P.M.
MINUTES
ROLL CALL:
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch. Also present were
Commissioners Dustin Smith, Al Barber. Mayor Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy via speaker
telephone. Absent were Commissioners Dan Bonillo and Christopher Nance.
Administrative staff present were Town Manager Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Emily
Yopp, Finance Director Kesha Matthews, Town Planner Kathy Liles, Director of
Public Work, Allen Smith, Chief of Police Bart Davis and Fire Chief Brian
Tyner.
CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
PLEDGE
– Commissioner Dustin Smith gave the Pledge of Allegiance.
INVOCATION
– Commissioner Al Barber led the room in prayer.
APPROVAL/CONFLICT OF AGENDA ITEMS
– There is no conflict with agenda as presented. Board gives unanimous consent
to approve.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Jonathan Watts voiced his concerns to the Board that the landscape buffer
proposed by the Carriage Hills developer is not in compliance with the
conditions of the conditional zoning ordinance that was adopted. Mr. Watts
states that the buffer consists of deciduous maple trees spaced twenty-five
feet apart that will lose their leaves in the winter and make the development
visible to his property. This does not satisfy the privacy requirements
approved in the ordinance and accepted by the developer. Kathy Liles concurred
that she also has concerns that the buffer is not correct and will be checking
the ordinance that was approved during the conditional zoning hearing.
6. CONSENT AGENDA
Commissioner Barber motions to approve consent agenda as presented.
Commissioner Smith seconds the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
8. MANAGER’S REPORT
Tom Robinson gave the manager’s report. Phase One of the sewer expansion
project is expected to be finished January of 2023. The parking lot project has
been delayed by weather, but the county is scheduled to pave it today and it
should take about a week before the lot will be open to the public. Moore
County Capital Projects Manager, Richard Smith, has informed Mr. Robinson that
county employees will be encouraged to park in other areas of downtown to allow
visitors to maximize the new parking lot spaces. There will be 87 open parking
spaces and 59 2-hour parking. Road paving has been rebid and awarded to Seven
Lakes Paving. They are $30,000 less than The Fred Smith Company and reviews of
their work were favorable.
The owner of the Sinclair Building at 105 McReynolds Street has requested a
permit to demolish the structure. This building makes up a large part of
downtown Carthage and consists of a 1940’s era storefront attached to the T.B.
Tyson mansion. A group of local citizens are investigating the purchase of the
building in order to save it. Mr. Robinson has asked University of North
Carolina’s Downtown Finance Initiative (DFI) for any assistance they can
provide to revitalize this building as well as the old Tyson and Jones Buggy
Company office building on the corner of Ray Street and McReynolds Street. The
DFI group is awaiting word on funding for the Buggy Office building and
Wayfinding plan through the state budget plan. Updates were also given on the
CERRI and Land Use Plan committees.
Mr. Robinson explained his concerns with the excess of litter on the roadways
in Moore County and Carthage. He described a litter enforcement program that
Burke County initiated while he was a county manager there and would like to
request for the county commissioners to consider passing a resolution
encouraging such a program to help clean up the roadways.
Commissioner Smith motioned to close the public portion of the meeting and
proceed to the scheduled public hearings. Commissioner Barber seconded the
motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0. Commissioner Barber motioned to open the
first public hearing for the conditional rezoning of 427 Vass-Carthage Road.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 3-0.
9. PUBLIC HEARINGS
427 VASS-CARTHAGE ROAD – PARCEL #00006092
Kathy Liles presented the request by the applicant, Christopher Maxwell of
Sowing Seeds Academy to conditionally rezone parcel # 00006092, located at 427
Vass-Carthage Road and within the town limits, from R-10 to R-20CZ to allow for
the reopening of the daycare building currently located there and grow to allow
additional school uses over time. Specifically, the applicant is requesting to
resume the daycare use and then expand over several years into a K-12 school.
The current daycare building was being operated as a nonconforming use for many
years until it closed and the nonconforming use was lost.
The back end of parcel is near Thoroughfare Business District (TBD) zoning
while the front end of the parcel is surrounded by R-10 residential parcels.
This proposed school use fits more on the residential-institutional side of
zoning since schools are not allowed in TBD districts. No issue found with spot
zoning. The 1999 Land Use Plan identifies the area as being commercial and sets
forth several goals of which the Board of Commissioners must weigh proposals
such as this one against. Schools, while not specifically addressed in current
Land Use Plan, would provide needed childcare and educational services that
would most likely improve the quality of life for the residents of Carthage.
Daycare is in high demand and short supply all over Moore County and would be a
benefit to Carthage residents while a faith-based school, such as this one,
allows some variety of education for our citizens.
The following conditions were recommended:
R-20CZ zoning be authorized to allow for a K-12 school subject to submittal of
a full code compliant site plan to be approved by the Planning Board.
A day care center on the property may resume subject to all state approvals.
Summer camp may resume on the property within existing facilities.
The Planning Board has also recommended approval of this request with no
additional conditions and finds it consistent with the 1999 Land Use Plan.
Applicant, Chris Maxwell, was given the floor to speak to his request. Mr.
Maxwell introduced the board to members of their staff and described their
vision for school. Mr. Maxwell described the school as a four-to-five-day
curriculum with one day a week dedicated to community service and citizenship.
Sowing Seeds Academy seeks the conditional zoning to achieve this purpose and
the rezoning is a condition on the purchase of the property. The school is
anticipated to bring in some educational jobs and they wish to being in the
fall of 2022. At full capacity, with grades K-12, they hope to bring over fifty
(50) jobs to Carthage and a net profit of roughly $500,000 per year. The
Maxwell’s intend to seek grants to offset costs of construction and to help
parents with tuition.
Patty Barber, a resident of Carthage, asked to speak and voiced her concern
with traffic issues in the area when coming out of driveway. Her children had
attended the daycare center before and they struggled to exit safely. Mr.
Maxwell stated that he will work with NCDOT to conduct any traffic studies
needed. Mrs. Barber expressed her support of the project. Mayor Chalflinch
asked for any more comments from audience – there were none. Mayor Chalflinch
called for a motion from the board.
Commissioner Smith motioned that the board find this request consistent with
the 1999 Land Use Plan. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carried
Commissioner Smith motioned that the Board of Commissioners approve this
rezoning request subject to the recommended conditions. Commissioner Barber
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 3-0.
PARCELS #00000354 AND #00000355 OFF BARKER’S LANE AND OLD RIVER ROAD
Kathy Liles opened the hearing with a description of the request. Property
owners, David and Helen Barker, request conditional zoning from RA-40 to RA-
40CZ of these parcels to allow for subdivision of family-owned property to
create a family subdivision at the northwest corner of the intersection of Old
River Road and Glendon Carthage Road. Conditional zoning has been requested to
allow 1) a reduction of one lot to .5 acres, and 2) the creation of one larger
lot with 2.666 acres with two single-wide residences. This request is designed
to accommodate the existing configuration of homes.
There is an existing approved driveway with a circular interior consisting of a
mixture of structures. The parcels are in town limits as a satellite annexation
and is surrounded by parcels located in the Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
(ETJ). The combined acreage is 6.396 acres and already contains five (5)
dwelling units. When looking at 1999 Land Use Plan, this zoning does not affect
the current zoning plan and is not inconsistent with the plan. Spot zoning
analysis finds that the town will only be adding on conditions for the future
use of the property and not changing the underlying district of RA-40. The
residential uses are not being proposed to change from the current
configuration. One lot will be below the minimum lot size, but overall the
density will remain the same as a clustered RA-40 property. Rezoning the
property will allow the property owner to divide the land for heirs without
creating an impact on the surrounding community. Property owner, Helen Barker,
was called upon to comment to the request. She only asked that if one of the
structures were to be lost for any reason that a replacement be allowed back in
the same spot if needed.
The recommended conditions are:
Only Tract #3 is authorized to be .5 acres in size. All other tracts shall be
depicted on the September 11, 2021 Minor Subdivision Map prepared by Eugene
Garner and appended to this approval unless access is demonstrated to meet
NCDOT minimum subdivision road standards and all resulting lots meet the
minimum requirements of the RA-40 Zoning District.
Tract #1 may have two modular homes until such time as one is removed. From
that point forward, there shall be only one single family dwelling per lot
unless an accessory dwelling unit is specifically authorized by code and all
setbacks are met.
Commissioner Barber motioned that the Board of Commissioners find this request
consistent with the 1999 Land Use Plan. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion.
All ayes, motion carried 3-0.
Commissioners Barber motioned to that the Board of Commissioners approve this
rezoning request subject to the recommended conditions and the attached map.
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
VARIANCE REQUEST FOR MARK DEAN
The Board of Adjustment had previously continued the public hearing for a
variance concerning a property owned by Mark Dean. Mr. Dean has informed town
staff that the variance is no longer needed. Town staff recommends closing the
public hearing as it is no longer needed.
Commissioner Smith motioned to close the public hearing for this matter as a
variance is no longer needed by the applicant. Commissioner Barber seconded the
motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to close the public hearing portion of the
regular meeting. Commissioner Smith gave the motion. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy
seconded. All ayes, motion carried 3-0.
10. NEW BUSINESS
RESOLUTION FOR MAX H. MUSE
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented to the board a draft copy of resolution R-21-
20 honoring the life and memory of Max H. Muse and asked for any changes or
additions to the resolution. The board offered no changes. Commissioner Smith
motioned to approve Resolution R-21-20. Commissioner Barber seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carried 3-0.
PLANNING BOARD RECOMMENDATION RE: SEWER CAPACITY
The board was given an excerpt from the minutes of the Planning Board meeting
held September 2, 2021 describing the Planning Board’s recommendation to the
Board of Commissioners to consider hiring a third party water and sewer
consultant to analyze the town’s sewer capacity for accuracy as there are
concerns that the town’s lack of capacity is negatively impacting the growth in
Carthage. Mayor Chalflinch gave Town Manager, Tom Robinson, the floor to speak
to this matter.
Mr. Robinson explained that the minutes of the September Planning Board meeting
where this recommendation was made show that local developer, David Chapman,
approached the Planning Board about his concerns regarding the town’s sewer
capacity. Mr. Chapman was unable to attend this meeting. Mr. Robinson explained
that town is getting close to capacity with sewer. Mark Lacy of LKC Engineering
was present at the meeting to answer any questions. It was explained that in
order to document the true flow of sewer you must have one year of data and
then take this evidence to the state for their approval. It was recommended
that Mr. Chapman speak with his contracted home builder, DR Horton, to discuss
the actual flows that their homes produce and bring the data to the Town and
LKC Engineering to see if there are adjustments that need to be made to the
current sewer capacity measurement.
It was stated to the Board of Commissioners that it is a violation of state law
if the town goes above the state approved capacity for the town. Director of
Public Works, Allen Smith, explained that these numbers are not pulled “out of
the air” and there is a lot that goes into making these calculations. He
further stated that he stands behind the numbers as they are now. LKC
Engineering further explained that if a builder or developer can present the
data showing the total sewer usage of their homes that were previously built,
LKC Engineering can adjust predicted capacity flows. This is a service that LKC
Engineering can do with developers to identify their flow rates. Tom Robinson
and Allen Smith recommended that Mr. Chapman speak with his own engineer as
well. Anton Sadovnikov spoke on behalf of the Planning Board and stated that
the recommendation was only to aid the Town in their capacity studies.
PLANNING BOARD RECOMMENDATION RE: NAMING OF THE PARK AT SAVANNAH GARDEN
The Planning Board would like to see the future park at the Savannah Garden
neighborhood named after a soldier who was killed in the line of duty during
the August 26, 2021 bombing of Kabul Airport in Afghanistan. The Planning Board
stated that they have spoke with Mr. Chapman and that he has agreed to do this
if the Board of Commissioners agrees. Mr. Robinson asked if there is a
particular servicemember to be honored. Anton Sadovnikov, on behalf of the
Planning Board, stated that one of soldiers was an North Carolina serviceman
and that this would honor his sacrifice and that sacrifices made by military
families in Carthage. Tom Robinson explained that it is up to the Board of
Commissioners but that naming parks, schools or other structures after
individuals is not as popular as it used to be, but it is still done. Mayor
Chalflinch recommended tabling the matter until a full board could be present
to decide. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy motioned to table the matter of naming the
future park at Savannah Garden. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carries 3-0.
CONTRACTS FOR THE SEWER EXPANSION PROJECT
Tom Robinson explained that the contracts presented to the Board of
Commissioners is just another step in the process of implementing the sewer
expansion project to increase sewer capacity. The Town will buy the pipe and
transfer it to ELJ, Inc. The contract does have a pipe allowance that was
originally thought to be higher than what is given so a change order will be
needed right away. Mark Lacy and Bill Lester were present to answer any
questions. Commissioner Smith asked what thickness of pipe will be used.Mr.
Lacy and Mr. Lester explained that DR 21 will be used and is the accepted
standard as well as having a rating of 200 PSI and while it is 1/16 th of an
inch thinner than pipe that cost more it will be more than sufficient for the
sewer expansion.
Commissioner Smith motions to authorize the Town Manager to execute the
contracts for this project and to sign for any change orders so long as they
are within budget. Should any change orders exceed the budgeted amount for the
contract they shall be brought back before the Board of Commissioners for
review and approval. Commissioner Barber seconds the motion. All ayes, motioned
carried 3-0.
Commissioner Barber motions to award the contract for the PVC Pipe Procurement
for the Town of Carthage Sewer Capacity Improvement project to Fortiline
Waterworks. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried
3-0.
Commissioner Barber motions to award the construction contract for the Town of
Carthage Sewer Capacity Improvement Project to ELJ, Inc. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 3-0.  
SOUTHBURY TRAIL IDEA
Kathy Liles explained that Mr. Chapman is requesting that the Board of
Commissioners consider the development of a trail that connects multiple
subdivisions to one another throughout town. Town staff have concerns the trail
would abut townhomes and dwellings in the Southbury and Carriage Place
developments. Mrs. Liles asked if the Board would contemplate if they want to
set aside a pedestrian easement to tie these communities together and that a
decision is not needed at this time. The Board should consider if the public
would want a trail access behind their homes or if the trail could be placed in
a sewer easement.
Mayor Chalflinch called a three-minute recess.
11. OLD BUSINESS
BUDGET AND STAFFING NEEDS
Tom Robinson was called upon to speak to this topic. Mr. Robinson explained
that the Board of Commissioners had deliberated vigorously a few months ago
about adding a fire captain and policeman during the budget sessions and that
the Board hoped to get grants to assist with these positions. The Board decided
to delay this decision until the grant reward periods had ended. Mr. Robinson
explained that the Town had not been successful in getting any grant money to
help offset the cost of salaries. It also appears that there may need to be a
tax increase to accommodate these salaries. Mr. Robinson explained that there
is a lot of growth underway right now in Carthage, but that the town will not
see revenues from this growth until 2023. Property must be fully built and on
the tax books by December of the year it is finished in order to be counted
toward the budget of the town; therefore, Carthage will realize this revenue in
2023-2024.
Mr. Robinson stated that the Town needs to get through this budget year and the
next budget year without an abundance of tax revenue but that sales tax
revenues coming into the Town saw a 31% increase due to increased shopping
during the pandemic however this should be viewed as a one-time phenomenon that
may not occur again. Mr. Robinson is anticipating that this year will be a lean
year and if Board of Commissioners wants to approve the positions they will
need to use fund balance from this year and possibly use fund balance and
increase the tax rate next year to accommodate the salaries of these two new
positions. Undesignated fund balance is currently at 31%, and while
municipalities typically maintain their fund balances at 50% - 60%, Carthage is
not hurting at 31% but it is on the low side. This is a tough decision, the
need for these positions is there but it will be up to the Board of
Commissioners to decide.
Commissioner Smith asked if American Rescue Plan (ARP) funds could pay for the
positions. Finance Director, Kesha Matthews, explained that the majority of the
ARP money would need to be shown as used for Covid-19 related uses. Mayor
Chalflinch stated that he would like to have a full board present to make this
decision and wishes to table the matter. Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy is concerned with
putting the matter off much longer as he is concerned that the departments need
this manpower to provide emergency services to citizens. Commissioner Smith
expressed his concern with the upcoming holidays and the increase in calls with
current staff out for holiday time. The Board wishes to know if the positions
are approved tonight when new staff could be hired. Police Chief Bart Davis is
not sure as he has one position open right now and no applications have come
in. Chief Davis is concerned that it will be more difficult to fill two
positions. Fire Chief Brian Tyner can have a new staff member by November 1 st
. Mr. Robinson explained that $45,000 would need to come out of the fund
balance and that it will not hurt the Town but it is important for the Board to
know that if they authorize these positions now, and it ends up being next year
before someone is hired, it will run cost $120,000 in salaries and benefits.
Pertaining to the ability to get grants for next year, Mr. Robinson explained
that it appears the SAFER grant, used to hire additional firefighters, has run
out of money and become very hard to get. Chief Davis expressed his concerns
that grants continue to be difficult to acquire for Carthage due to being in a
Tier Three county even though the Town of Carthage is not experiencing the
monetary benefits of such a rating since all of the wealth is concentrated in
the lower half around Pinehurst, Southern Pines and Aberdeen.
Commissioner Smith motions that the Board of Commissioners give their
permission to the Police and Fire Chiefs to hire their staff with use of money
from the fund balance unless the money can be found elsewhere, such as from a
grant, and that the Board approve to add these positions to the pay plan.
Commissioner Barber seconds this motion. All ayes, motion carries 3-0.
WAYFINDING PLAN UPDATE
Kathy Liles explains that she has been working with Bizzell Designs to come up
with a concept for wayfinding signage for use throughout town. While there are
some errors in the print outs that need to be fixed, she asked the Board to
focus on the design itself. The horse and buggy are the overarching theme for
the signage with four color options to consider. Town staff likes the use of
the cut-out horse and buggy on some signs but not all. The taller signs are for
cars while the shorter signs are for pedestrians. There is a kiosk option shown
that would be placed downtown for pedestrians to find their way to various
businesses and county facilities.
The focus area of the signage will be a six-block area around downtown. After
discussing the concept, Moore County Property Management Director Gene Boles,
is not sure this is the right way to go right now with the new courthouse under
construction, the County could move offices around, and realignments could take
place after construction that lead both Mr. Boles and Mrs. Liles to think this
may not be a good time to put up permanent signage. Mrs. Liles and town staff
feel that the map kiosk will be very helpful downtown. Signs with wording seem
to get very busy when listing all of the county services offered around
downtown and Mrs. Liles wishes to focus instead on bringing people into town
from 15-501 and directing them to the downtown area but also to parks and Town
Hall, which is often assumed to be in downtown Carthage. As the downtown
settles after courthouse construction (in about three years) Mrs. Liles feels
that will be a better time to assess permanent signage downtown.
The Board expressed their approval with Mrs. Liles’ approach to work the
signage slowly into downtown over time. Mrs. Liles also informed the Board that
the County would like to see if Public Works can install the signs instead of
hiring contractors to do it.
12. OTHER BUSINESS
Commissioner Smith asked about the Dowd Street connector road and if it was to
be complete this year. Tom Robinson explained that it was not given a deadline,
just that it was to be done during the 3-year courthouse construction project.
The design of the connector road is still evolving, and the County is sending
the Town the latest designs. Kathy Liles will bring the designs to the next
meeting to update the board as to the status of that.
Mayor Chalflinch showed a flyer announcing a public meeting to hear a
presentation by John Birath regarding the renovation or replacement of Carthage
Elementary School and encouraged citizens to take one and get the word out.
13. CLOSING PRAYER
- Mayor Chalflinch gave the closing prayer.
14. ADJOURNMENT
– Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Commissioners
Barber motioned to adjourn the meeting. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion.
All ayes; motion carried 3-0. Meeting was adjourned 7:48 p.m.
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
ATTEST
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk
NOVEMBER 9, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 9, 2021
6:30 P.M.
ROLL CALL:
Commissioners Christopher Nance, Dan Bonillo, Dustin Smith and Al Barber were
present in person. Mayor Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy was absent. Mayor Jimmy
Chalflinch was present and presiding.
CALL TO ORDER –
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:38 p.m.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE –
Commissioner Nance led the room in the pledge.
INVOCATION –
Commissioner Barber gave the prayer.
INTRODUCTION –
Mayor Chalflinch explained that this special meeting was to hear a presentation
by Moore County School representatives Dr. Grimesey and John Birath on the
feasibility of repairing or replacing the Carthage Elementary School located on
Rockingham Street in Carthage. Mayor Chalflinch thanked both Dr. Grimesey and
John Birtath for taking time to make this presentation to the Board of
Commissioners and the public. Mayor Chalflinch also recognized members of the
Moore County Board of Education who were in attendance to hear the presentation
as well as Carthage Elementary Principal Debbie Warren.
NEW BUSINESS
CARTHAGE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL PRESENTATION
Dr. Grimesey introduced the purpose of the presentation before turning it over
to John Birath, Executive Officer for Operations. Mr. Birath explained that the
current elementary school sits on 7.66 acres with seven buildings and will hold
approximately 440 students. The current 7.66 acres will not support a new
school. The Town of Carthage owns property known as Nancy Kiser Park next door
which the County could use to expand the school property to 16.84 acres, but it
would still be an irregularly shaped piece of land and the existing topography
is very steep in some areas.
There has been much concern that the growth of the Little River area could lead
to overpopulation at Carthage Elementary School but students in that area would
attend Sandhills Farmlife School, not Carthage Elementary. Currently, the
population of Carthage Elementary School is expected to hit 412 students in
2022-2023 and 448 students in 2028-2029. Growth in Little River is not included
in these forecasts. Sandhills Farmlife School is also expected to exceed their
maximum capacity of students in 2028-2029 and they are not able to expand on
their current site either.
Carthage Elementary needs $17,550,525 work of work that would sustain education
for another 50 years. However, to implement this work would cause major
disruption to learning. Moore County has $1,193,040 allocated to Carthage
Elementary for capital improvements and the Moore County Board of Education
approved the gym modernization of 6 schools at their meeting last night.
Costs have gone up due to recent inflation and costs have been modified. Mr.
Birath explained that there is a scale that is used to gauge which school
buildings need to be rebuilt entirely compared to others and that Carthage
Elementary received a 6. A rating of 12 or less suggests the need for building
replacement. The Site Feasibility survey gave Carthage Elementary an 8. A score
of 7 or less indicates replacement of the entire site is needed. A hypothetical
timeline was given to show how long it would take to achieve a replacement
versus repair of the school. It would take approximately 3 years and 10 months
to building a new school ready for staff and students of up to 650 maximum
capacity. This would require a temporary location for modular classrooms to be
placed for those years while the school is built. A 650-student facility would
need about 16.5 acres of useable land and additional land for setbacks,
parking, etc.
Mr. Birath showed some quick sketches of what a new school layout on the
current site could look like. A Preliminary Budget sheet was shown and the
estimated cost to build a new 650-student school at the current site would cost
approximately $54,293,000 with the new inflation costs included.
QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS
- A few members of the public asked questions or voiced their opinions on the
matter.
4. ADJOURNMENT
– With no other questions or comments Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to
adjourn. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the meeting; Commissioner
Nance seconded. All ayes, motion carried 4-0. Meeting was adjourned at 7:44
p.m.   
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
ATTEST
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk
NOVEMBER 15, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
NOVEMBER 15, 2021
6:30 P.M.
REGULAR MEETING
ROLL CALL:
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch and Commissioners Dan
Bonillo, Al Barber, Dustin Smith and Christopher Nance. Staff members present
were Emily Yopp (Town Clerk), Kesha Matthews (Finance Officer), Brian Tyner
(Fire Chief), Bart Davis (Police Chief), Allen Smith (Director of Public
Works), Kathy Liles (Town Planner) and Jamie Sandoval (Intern/Administrative
Assistant).
CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION:
Commissioner Smith led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Commissioner Bonillo gave the pledge.
APPROVAL/CONFLICT OF AGENDA ITEMS:
Board of Commissioners gave unanimous consent to approve the agenda as
presented.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
None
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
ADOPTION OF NEW GENERAL RECORDS SCHEDULE BY REFERENCE
BUDGET AMENDMENT FOR IT SERVICES
Commissioner Nance motioned to approve the consent agenda as presented.
Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
MANAGER’S REPORT:
No Manager’s Report. Mayor Chalflinch announced that there would be a public
input meeting regarding the development of a bicycle and pedestrian trail on
Sunset Drive on November 18, 2021 at 6:30 p.m.
PUBLIC HEARINGS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS
RESOLUTION HONORING MAX H. MUSE
Members of the Muse family were present at the meeting. Mayor Chalflinch spoke
to Mr. Muse’s memory and presented the family with a framed resolution honoring
his memory and contributions to the Town of Carthage and Moore County.
CALL FOR PUBLIC HEARING – LITTLE RIVER
Little River is working on how to move forward with their development plans and
will need to amend the previously approved conditional zoning for Phases 2 and
3.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to call for a public hearing to be held on
Monday, December 20, 2021, to consider amendments of the originally approved
ordinance for the Little River development and that the Town Clerk post all
notices of the hearing as required by general statute for the State of North
Carolina. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-
0.
APPEARANCE COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
After presentation of two applications for appointment to the Appearance
Committee made by Malcolm Hall and Patty Kempton Commissioner Bonillo motioned
to appointment Patty Kempton and Malcolm Hall to the Appearance Committee for a
term of three (3) years. Commissioner Nance seconded. All ayes; motion carries
4-0.
BELIEVER'S CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP CHURCH PLAYGROUND UPDATE
Kathy Liles explained that the church has acquired play equipment and wishes to
set it up behind their building located at 109 N. McNeill Street and next to
Caviness Park. The church is open to allowing others to use the equipment and
Caviness Park is open to the public in general. Town Manager, Tom Robinson, has
explained to the church that the Town would have no liability to make repairs
or maintain the play equipment if used by the public. The church also wishes to
install a metal fence not to exceed 4 feet in height to help secure the area
from vehicles and other unsafe activities that sometimes pass through the rear
of the property. The church has also indicated that they are interested in
acquiring some of the town property adjacent to their property. The Town
Manager indicated a preference for holding on to town property for now. No
decision needed from the Board of Commissioners.
DOWNTOWN PARKING LOT AGREEMENT
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, introduced an agreement sent to staff by the County
regarding the management of the newly renovated parking downtown. Town Manager,
Tom Robinson, feels the agreement is fair. The Board is asked to set a term
length for the contract. Chief Davis explained that he spoke with Director of
Capital Projects, Rich Smith, about the county’s needs regarding enforcement of
2-hour parking and feels comfortable providing this service.
Commissioner Smith motioned to approve that the Memorandum of Agreement between
the County of Moore and the Town of Carthage be effective for a term of 10
years. Commissioner Nance seconded. All ayes; motion carries 4-0. 
NEW COMMISSIONER’S ORIENTATION DAY
The Orientation Day for the new commissioners will be held December 14, 2021.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING DISPOSAL/SALE OF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT
Finance Officer, Kesha Matthews, explained the purpose of surplus equipment and
that Board authorization is required before it can be sold or disposed of.
Commissioner Smith motioned to approve the Resolution Declaring Surplus
Equipment and Authorizing Disposal or Sale. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. All
ayes; motion carries 4-0.
ROAD CLOSURE NOTICE FOR CHRISTMAS PARADE
In order to gain NCDOT permission to close Highway 24/27 at Monroe Street for
the Christmas parade an ordinance must first be adopted by the Board.
Commissioner Nance motioned to adopt Ordinance #20-34 Declaring a Road Closure
for the Carthage Christmas Parade. Commissioner Bonillo seconded. All ayes;
motion carries 4-0.
OLD BUSINESS
IT PROPOSALS AND SELECTION
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented the Board with information regarding the Town
Manager’s approval to hire Think Tech Advisors to provide IT service to the
Town of Carthage after the cancellation of the contract with the previous IT
company, Davenport Lawrence. No motion is needed from the Board, informational
only. Commissioner Bonillo asked what the “warranties” section of the contract
meant. Mrs. Yopp stated that she believes it is intended to explain that Think
Tech will not warranty any equipment already owned by the Town but will speak
with Think Tech President Ed Burton to be sure.
OTHER BUSINESS
Commissioner Bonillo stated that he has received calls from the owner of Buggy
Town Coffee with concern regarding a new business, Buggy Town Yard Signs, using
the same logo of a “buggy”. Commissioner Bonillo asked if the Town has any
policies governing business names if they are similar to each other. Town
Planner, Kathy Liles, stated that the State monitors matching business names
upon registration for a state business license. Mrs. Liles is not sure that the
town has the authority to govern business names and logos and that more
research on this will be needed.
Commissioner Bonillo stated that he has been contacted by a Moore County
amateur HAM radio operation organization regarding the installation of a
repeater on the Carthage water tower and naming it after Max H. Muse, who was a
radio operator himself. Public Works Director, Allen Smith, stated that the
water tower may not be an ideal location and that there is concern over the
protection of the tower from damages. Commissioner Bonillo would like to move
forward with assisting the radio club with their mission to install equipment.
CLOSING PRAYER
ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Chalflinch asked for a motion to adjourn the regular meeting.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the meeting, Commissioner Smith
seconded. All ayes; motion carries 4-0. Meeting adjourned at 6:54 p.m.
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
ATTEST
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk
DECEMBER 20, 2021
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
DECEMBER 20, 2021
6:30 P.M.
ROLL CALL -
Board members present are Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-Tem Milton Dowdy
and Commissioners Christopher Nance, Dan Bonillo, Dustin Smith and Al Barber.
CALL TO ORDER -
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION –
Commissioner Smith gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE –
Commissioner Bonillo led the room in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA –
The Board unanimously agreed to approve the agenda as presented.
CONSENT AGENDA
Mayor Pro-Tem Dowdy motioned to approve the following consent agenda items with
one motion; 1) a budget amendment to receive and allocate proceeds from the
sale of surplus equipment, 2) minutes of the October 18, 2021 regular meeting,
3) minutes of the November 9, 2021 special meeting, and 4) minutes of the
November 15, 2021 regular meeting. Commissioner Nance seconded Mr. Dowdy’s
motion. All ayes; motion passed 5-0.
OATH OF OFFICE CEREMONY
Clerk of Court, Susan Hicks, was present and swore into office Anton
Sadovnikov, Brent Tanner and John L. McDonald. Milton Dowdy, Christopher Nance
and Dustin Smith were thanked for their service to the Town of Carthage and a
short reception was held.
After the reception, Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting back into order at 6:
44 p.m.
ELECTION OF THE MAYOR PRO TEMPORE
Mayor Chalflinch explained the responsibilities of the Mayor Pro-Tem and
offered a recommendation to elect John McDonald to serve as Mayor Pro-Tem.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to appoint John McDonald to serve as the Mayor
Pro-Tem. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes; motion passed 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
The floor was opened to public comment. A resident voiced her concerns with the
poor sewer drainage occurring on her property due to old pipes on a vacant lot.
Public Work Director, Allen Smith, was directed to contact the resident to
discuss the issues further.
MANAGER’S REPORT
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, gave the Manager’s Report. Representative Allen
McNeill submitted a State budget request to provide $600,000 in matching
funding for the rehabilitation of the Tyson & Jones Buggy Factory office and
$50,000 in funds for the Wayfinding Sign plan. Senator McInness also sought
$300,000 in State funding for any capital improvement needs that Carthage may
have. Mr. Robinson commended the work of the entire legislative delegation in
working to secure this funding on behalf of the Town of Carthage.
Also include in the report was an update on the Automated Meter Infrastructure
System project which has reached completion, an update on the progress of the
Phase One Sewer Line Expansion project, the repaving of the lower part of
Pinehurst Avenue and patching potholes throughout the town and major repair
work on Sunset Drive. Public Works is having a plan drawn up to construct a
sidewalk along Old Glendon Road from McReynolds Street to Needmore Street,
development of a design to expand office space at the Town Hall and proposals
to perform the work.
Town staff continue to work with representatives of Little River to amend the
originally approved conditional zoning ordinance that was not signed within the
30-day period as required as well as the development of a water purchase
agreement between the Town and Moore County to supplement Carthage’s current
water production and supply. Mr. Robinson also reported that the town’s Unified
Development Ordinanceis under review for revisions that reflect the higher
development standards sought by the town and that the final draft of the new
Land Use Plan is ready for public input.
PUBLIC HEARINGS –
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearings at 7:00 p.m.
REQUEST TO REZONE PARCEL ID# 00002785
Applicant David Chapman and property owners Frederick Grimm and his brothers,
heirs to the subject property, are requesting to rezone a 23.07-acre tract of
land located between Pinehurst Avenue and Bingham Street from R-20 to R-10 to
allow for a major subdivision of forty (40), single-family detached homes to be
built as an extension of the Southbury neighborhood.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, explained the location and composition of the parcel
and the applicant’s request for a straight rezoning from R-20 to R-10. In a
straight rezoning, conditions cannot be placed on the rezoning and the decision
to seek straight rezoning rests with the applicant only and that a board may
not require an applicant to seek another type of rezoning. Mrs. Liles gave a
PowerPoint presentation consisting of visual slides to bring clarity to the
request.
There is a mix of zoning districts in the area to include R-10 and R-20. Based
on the 1999 Land Use Plan (LUP), this request satisfies goals 4, 6, and 7. The
1999 LUP does not distinguish between zoning densities - only whether an area
is planned for residential, industrial, commercial, etc. The 2040 LUP,
currently in draft form and not yet adopted, shows this same area as “town
residential” which is compatible with R-10 and R-20 scale development. The
Planning Board has recommended denial of straight rezoning from R-20 to R-10 by
a vote of 2-1. The Planning Board felt that recommending that if the applicant
seeks conditional zoning instead it would allow an opportunity to address
citizen concerns with regard to where the roads will enter, density, landscape
buffering, etc.
Applicant David Chapman was called on to speak to the request to rezone the
property. Mr. Chapman verbalized his commitment not to bring a street out on E.
Saunders Street to alleviate any citizen concerns there. Public comment was
then opened. Those who spoke to the matter voiced their concerns with the
narrowness of the road, whether or not the current roads are built to withstand
an increase in traffic, the increase in people in the area and in the town,
overcrowding of schools, safety of pedestrians who use Bingham Street, storm
water management, and density of housing in an R-10 zone.
Applicant David Chapman clarified that they are not interested in bringing
traffic onto Bingham Street or E. Saunders Street. Commissioner Bonillo asked
how many entrances will be built and Mr. Chapman replied that an entrance/exit
road will enter at Cagle Lane by the Pine Lake facility.
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, recommended that the Board consider all of the uses
that may occur in a R-10 zoned property. Any preliminary plans will be brought
back before the Board for their approval. Mr. Robinson agrees that Bingham
Street cannot handle an influx of high traffic. Instead, he feels that a fire
exit could be a benefit so that an emergency vehicle could get through. This
fire exit could also be developed with sidewalks for pedestrian use. The road
access points and speculation of where traffic would flow were further
discussed. Control of design aspects of the property can be controlled by
applying the Town’s subdivision ordinances. The Board further discussed storm
water management and how it might affect properties downhill of a subdivision
on this property. Town Planner, Kathy Liles, stated that it is very likely that
storm water retention may need to be designed to help alleviate water shed onto
other properties. Sedimentation and Erosion Control permits will also be
required by the State.
Commissioners Anton Sadovnikov and Brent Tanner feel that a conditional zoning
process might be better to ensure the best possible development. Points that
could be resolved using Conditional Zoning would be access points for streets,
hydrology analysis for storm water effects, as well as landscape buffering.
Commissioner Bonillo agrees with recommending that the applicant seek instead
R-10 Conditional Zoning. Commissioner Bonillo asked Mr. Chapman for the
reasoning behind his seeking R-10 over R-20 zoning. Mr. Chapman stated that R-
10 is consistent with what he is building in other areas of Carthage now and
referenced the recently approved Carriage Hill development, by the Ascot Group,
which was approved for a greater density than the R-10 Mr. Chapman is committed
to now. Mr. Chapman also stated that if he sought Conditional Zoning that he
would most likely seek a greater density as well.
Deliberations were concluded. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to recommend that
the rezoning is not consistent with the adopted 1999 Land Use Plan.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes 5-0.
The Board asked Mr. Chapman if he was willing to seek R-10-CZ (Conditional
Zoning) instead due to much public concern over access and density. Mr. Chapman
stated that he was willing to do so.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to deny of the straight rezoning request from
R-20 to R-10. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed
5-0.
Upon the agreement of Mr. Chapman to seek Conditional Zoning instead,
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to call for a public hearing at the next
regularly scheduled Board of Commissioners meeting. Commissioner Sadovnikov
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL – FOREST RIDGE PHASE III ADDITION
Mayor Chalflinch called the second public hearing to order at 8:10 p.m. Mr.
Chapman is requesting preliminary plat approval for the addition of lots 31-63
of Forest Ridge Phase III on parcel ID# 00001192. The project will connect to
lots 1-30 of Forest Ridge Phase III and ultimately to Forest Ridge Phase II at
Timberwood Drive. One point of ingress/egress to all of Phase III is proposed.
Mr. Chapman intends to install septic instead of sewer; public water is
available.
Mrs. Liles gave her staff report on this project and has recommended that the
developer demarcate the wetlands so that home buyers know where they are when
purchasing the property. Conventional subdivisions are required to preserve 5%
open space and based on the size of the property that equal 3.4 acres. The
Planning Board recommended that the developer include one acre of useable green
space for the residents. Town staff does not propose that the town maintain the
open space. There will be cluster mailboxes as now required by the post office.
Mrs. Liles explained that recent state legislation changes now state that a
second point of ingress/egress is only required if the development exceeds one
hundred (100) homes. The Moore County Deputy Fire Marshall has given his
approval that the subdivision may be built with only one ingress/egress road.
The applicant has agreed to provide a pedestrian connection to Almond Drive and
to the school. The connection to Almond Drive may require the town to acquire
an easement if one is not available. If an easement cannot be made available,
the applicant is not obligated to provide the connection.
The Planning Board has recommended approval due to the preliminary plat and
development of this parcel in Forest Ridge Phase III as it is a use by right -
although there are still some concerns from current residents of Forest Ridge.
Mrs. Liles concluded her report with an explanation that this subdivision is a
use by right. As such, conditions should be limited to those that make the
preliminary plat compliant with the Unified Development Ordinance. The
following conditions should be considered:
Meet all construction drawing requirements identified in Mrs. Liles report.
Demarcate the wetland boundaries in lots containing wetlands such that the
building envelope does not include wetlands. Identify the acreage clear of
wetlands.
A sidewalk is not recommended for the development.
Fire hydrant placement be reflected on construction drawings consistent with
the requirements of the Fire Marshall and Fire Chief.
The applicant shall connect the water line from the cul-de-sac on Road A to the
cul-de-sac on at the end of Almond Drive to provide utility interconnection.
The applicant shall provide pedestrian connections as identified in Mrs. Liles
report.
That at least one acre of the required 5% of open space be useable and
maintainable for the purpose of recreation.
Commissioner Bonillo stated that he was contacted by a resident with concerns
that Mr. Chapman would not be incorporating into the current Forest Ridge
homeowner’s association. Mr. Chapman explained that their the current HOA’s
covenants, conditions and restriction, developed in 2008, are complicated and
that the builder, D.R. Horton would prefer to set up their own HOA.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned that the Board of Commissioners approve the
preliminary plat for the Forest Ridge Phase III Addition of lots 32 to 63
subject to staff recommendation as well as approval of all proposed
recommendations. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 5-0.
AMENDMENT OF CONDITIONS – LITTLE RIVER
Town staff request a continuation of the public hearing to amend the previously
approved conditions adopted August 7, 2021, as town staff have not had enough
time to review the proposed changes. Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to
continue the public hearing to consider amendments to these conditions to the
the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners. Commissioner Bonillo
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
NEW BUSINESS
REQUEST TO RESCHEDULE THE NEXT REGULAR MEETING
The next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners is scheduled to occur on
Monday, January 17, 2022 (Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday) and Town Hall will be
closed. Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, is requesting that the Board consider
rescheduled the meeting to the following Tuesday, January 18, 2022, at 6:30
p.m. Commissioner Tanner motioned to reschedule the next meeting of the Board
of Commissioners to Tuesday, January 18, 2022, due to the Martin Luther King
Jr. Holiday. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 5-0.
CALL FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS
Rezoning applications have been submitted for the following properties: 201 E.
Barrett Street, Parcel ID# 20000013702 located at the corner of Glendon-
Carthage Road and Hwy. 15-501, and Parcels #00005661, 20200572, 00005654,
00005653701, 98000543701 and 20080573 owned by the Fred Smith Company and
located on Glendon-Carthage Road. The Town Clerk is requesting that the Board
of Commissioners set dates for the public hearings.
Commissioner Bonillo motions to set the public hearings to consider the
requests to rezone these properties to take place on Tuesday, January 18, 2022,
at 6:30 p.m. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries
5-0.
RESOLUTION #R-21-22 DECLARING SURPLUS EQUIPMENT
Kesha Matthews, Finance Director, described the request and purpose of the
resolution to sell the following property as surplus: 1,327 brass water meters
of various sizes, 2 EOTech Rifle Optics, Model 512.A65 with serial numbers
A0153872 and A0153867. Commissioner Bonillo motions to approve resolution #R-
21-22 to sell the equipment as surplus. Commissioner Tanner seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
APPOINTMENT OF PLANNING BOARD MEMBERS
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, explained that there are six available seats* and that
interviews were conducted by the Planning Board. Mrs. Yopp also recommended
that the Board consider if all seats were filled with new members that it could
cause significant turnover and possible loss of continuity. The Planning Board
has recommended that Bradly Dick and Nathan Cherry be appointed to the Planning
Board. All current members serving on the board whose terms are expired have
submitted their requests for consideration of reappointment and wish to
continue to serve on the Planning Board.
Commissioner Bonillo feels that the Board should host interviews with
candidates as well since it is the Board of Commissioners who are responsible
for making the appointments. Commissioner Sadovnikov stated that appointments
of candidates are necessary now due to pace of development in Carthage. Town
Manager, Tom Robinson, stated that the Planning Board is one of the most
important boards and that appointments to this board should be made with care
and consideration.
Commissioner Bonillo motions to hold a special meeting for Planning Board
applicants, wishes to discuss considerations for a future change in the
ordinance governing the Planning Board, and proposes that the special meeting
to be held January 7, 2022, at 6:00 p.m. and that the Town Clerk reopen the
application process to allow for more applications during the time between now
and the special meeting. Mayor Pro-Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carries 5-0.
*There was an error in the agenda memo submitted to the Board of Commissioners
as there were only five seats up for reappointment. This correction to the
minutes is recommended by Town Clerk, Emily D. Yopp.
OLD BUSINESS
CARRIAGE PLACE PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, explained that the subdivision regulations of the
Town of Carthage allow for performance guarantees to be accepted in lieu of
requiring the completion, installation, and dedication of all improvement prior
to final plat approval. Mr. Chapman would like to place funds in escrow for the
completion of landscape improvements in the amount of $23, 632.
Commissioner Bonillo motions that the Board of Commissioners accept the use of
a performance guarantee in the amount of $23,632 for the completion of
landscaping improvements for Carriage Place Phase I and authorize execution of
the resolution accepting surety. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carries 5-0.
ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Pro Tem, John McDonald, gave the closing prayer. Commissioner Bonillo
motioned to adjourn the meeting. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion.
The meeting was adjourned by Mayor Chalflinch at 9:16 p.m.
2022 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 7, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
JANUARY 7, 2022
6:00 P.M.
ROLL CALL
Board members present were Mayor Pro-Tem John McDonald and Commissioners Brent
Tanner, Dan Bonillo, Anton Sadovnikov and Al Barber. Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch was
absent. Staff members present were Town Manager Tom Robinson and Town Clerk
Emily Yopp.
CALL TO ORDER -
Meeting was called to order at 6:11 p.m. by Mayor Pro Tem, John McDonald,
presiding.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA –
Board unanimously agrees to the agenda as presented.
NEW BUSINESS
A. INTERVIEWS OF APPLICANTS FOR THE PLANNING BOARD
The Board conducted interviews with all applicants that were in attendance.
Applicants interviewed were Elizabeth Futrell, Nathan Cherry, Malcolm Hall,
Christopher Sweet, Travis McNeill, David Flores, Frank Muse, and Georgia
Chriscoe.
B. DELIBERATION OF THE BOARD – None.
C. APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE PLANNING BOARD
Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald explained the process by which the applicants would
be nominated by a motion of a member of the board, that a second is required to
initiate the voting process and that each board member would then state their
vote of ‘aye’ or ‘no’ for the record.
For seat one with a term expiring January 2025 Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned
to appoint Chris Sweet. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. Brent Tanner –
aye. Dan Bonillo – aye. Anton Sadovnikov – aye. Al Barber – aye. John McDonald
– aye. All ayes, motion passes 5-0.
For seat two with a term expiring January 2025 Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned
to appoint David Flores. Commissioner Bonillo asked the board if he would need
to be recused from this vote due to Commissioner Bonillo having served with Mr.
Flores while in the military. Town Manager Tom Robinson informed the board that
Commissioner Bonillo’s recusal is not necessary. Commissioner Barber seconded
the first motion to appoint David Flores. Brent Tanner – aye. Dan Bonillo –
aye. Anton Sadovnikov – aye. Al Barber – aye. John McDonald – aye. All ayes,
motion passes 5-0.
For seat three with a term expiring January 2025 Commissioner Sadovnikov
motioned to appoint Elizabeth Futrell. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion.
Brent Tanner – aye. Dan Bonillo – aye. Anton Sadovnikov – aye. Al Barber – aye.
John McDonald – aye. All ayes, motion passes 5-0.
For seat four with a term expiring October 2022 Commissioner Bonillo motions to
appoint Georgia Chriscoe to serve as a representative of the Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. Brent Tanner – aye.
Dan Bonillo – aye. Anton Sadovnikov – aye. Al Barber – aye. John McDonald –
aye. All ayes, motion passes 5-0.
For seat five with a term expiring September 2023 Commissioner Bonillo motions
to appoint Frank Muse. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. Brent
Tanner – aye. Dan Bonillo – aye. Anton Sadovnikov – aye. Al Barber – aye. John
McDonald – aye. All ayes, motion passes 5-0.
ADJOURNMENT –
With no further business, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald motions to adjourn the
meeting. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. Meeting was adjourned at 8:08
p.m.
JANUARY 18, 2022
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 18, 2022
MCDONALD BUILDING
207 MCREYNOLDS STREET
CARTHAGE, NORTH CAROLINA
6:30 P.M.
The Carthage Board of Commissioners held a Regular Meeting at 6:30 p.m.,
Tuesday, January 18, 2022 in the Board Room of the McDonald Building, 207
McReynolds Street, Carthage, North Carolina. Ms. Kim Gibson to take the minutes
of the meeting.
The following were in attendance:
Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor
John McDonald, Mayor Pro Tem
Brent Tanner, Commissioner
Dan Bonillo, Commissioner
Anton Sadovnikov, Commissioner
Al Barber, Commissioner
Tom Robinson, Town Manager
Kim Gibson, Customer Service Specialist
Emily D. Yopp, Town Clerk (via telephone)
CALL TO ORDER.
Mayor Chalflinch called the Board of Commissioners meeting to order at 6:30
p.m.
INVOCATION.
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch gave the invocation.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE.
Commissioner Anton Sadovnikov led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Board of Commissioners unanimously approved the agenda with the following
changes:
To move agenda item 10-B (Employee Service Recognition) from New Business to
the Manager’s Report.
To move agenda item 11-B (Amendment to Resolution #20-04 to Rebuild Carthage
Elementary) under agenda item 8-C and include as part of the Century Committee
presentation.
APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA.
All items listed below are considered routine and were approved by one motion.
No separate discussion will be held unless requested by a member of the Board
of Commissioners.
Budget Amendment #6: Receive/allocate the proceeds from the sale of surplus
equipment.
Approval of the Board of Commissioners Meeting Minutes:
December 20, 2021, Regular Meeting
January 7, 2022, Special Meeting
Upon a motion by Commissioner Sadovnikov, seconded by Commissioner Barber, the
Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to approve the consent agenda as presented.
PUBLIC COMMENT.
The floor was opened to public comment. A local resident spoke to the Board of
Commissioners on the topic of the new stores that have recently opened downtown
and encouraging community festivals in the downtown area.
MANAGER’S REPORT.
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, reported that:
Town Staff is happy with the IT services being provided by Think Tech.
Staff are still working to finalize the conditions for the Little River
Conditional Zoning request.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, will be out of the office for an extended period due
to a medical procedure. Mr. Robinson is seeking planning assistance from other
sources as well as working with town staff to prepare for Mrs. Liles’ absence.
The town has received interest in rehabilitation of the Tyson & Jones Buggy
Building from two breweries and that staff will be evaluating these options in
partnership with Natalie Hawkins and the Partners in Progress.
With many new members on the Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board town
staff are working diligently to make the transition a smooth one.
Mr. Robinson is already working with department heads to begin planning for the
2022-2023 budget. Budget planning session is anticipated to be held in March.
Mr. Robinson recognized employees J.W. Dick (Carthage Police Department,
Control Shift Supervisor), Allen Smith (Public Works Director) and Jack Caddell
(Public Services Technician) for the contributions, dedication and commitment
to the Town of Carthage and the community. A keepsake to honor their service
was distributed to each employee.
COMMITTEE REPORTS.
CERRI Work Group Presentation.
Grace Lawrence of the Department of Revenue was present to present and
described to the Board of Commissioners the purpose of the CERRI program and
the work that has been done over the last year with a group of volunteers
consisting of town citizens, business owners, board members and town staff. A
final report will be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for their
consideration once complete.
Land Use Plan Committee Update.
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, reported on the current activities of the Land Use Plan
committee responsible for researching, compiling and finalizing the 2040
Carthage Comprehensive Land Use Plan to replace the outdated 1999 Land Use
Plan. The next meeting(s) of the Land Use Plan Committee will be held February
16 th and March 16 th at the McDonald Building.
Carthage Century Committee.
Tommy Phillips, a representative of the Carthage Century Committee, was present
to introduce to the newest board members the mission of the Carthage Century
Committee, a citizen-led 501(c)(3) economic development group established in
Carthage many years ago. The Century Committee is responsible for the planning/
implementation of the murals throughout town as well as leading the effort to
advocate for a new or renovated Carthage Elementary School.
Mr. Robinson and Mr. Phillips explained that in January 2021 the Board of
Commissioners approved a resolution seeking the Moore County School Board and
Moore County Board of Commissioners to support the replacement of Carthage
Elementary School due to its age, poor condition, and inadequacy to meet
current and future needs. Since that time, town staff and Carthage Century
Committee members have met with representatives of the Moore County School
Board to discuss the feasibility of a new school. It has been identified that
the current site of Carthage Elementary is no longer an ideal location for the
school due to its topography and size. As such, Mr. Robinson and Mr. Phillips
are asking that the Board of Commissioners consider amending the resolution to
state that they support the building of a new Carthage Elementary School on the
current site “as well as on a new site that is within the immediate Carthage
area.”
Upon a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo, and seconded by Commissioner
Sadovnikov, the Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to approve the amendment to
Resolution #20-04.
PUBLIC HEARINGS.
Request for Conditional Zoning by David Chapman for the Extension of the
Southbury development.
Mrs. Yopp explained that while the public hearing was properly noticed and
advertised per General Statute the Planning Board was unable to hear the matter
due to a loss of quorum at their last meeting. The Town of Carthage Unified
Development Ordinance requires that requests for Conditional Zoning must first
go before the Planning Board for review, recommendations and the adoption of a
resolution of land use plan consistency. At this time, Mrs. Yopp requested that
the Board continue the public hearing to their next meeting regular meeting.
Upon a motion by Commissioner Bonillo, and seconded by Commissioner Tanner, the
Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to continue the public hearing to the next
Board of Commissioner’s meeting to be held February 21 st at 6:30 p.m.
Request for Conditional Zoning by The Fred Smith Company.
As with the Southbury Expansion request, this matter has not been reviewed by
the Planning Board as required by the Unified Development Ordinance.
Upon a motion by Commissioner Sadovnikov, and seconded by Commissioner Tanner,
the Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to continue the public hearing to the next
Board of Commissioner’s meeting to be held February 21 st at 6:30 p.m.
Request for Straight Rezoning of 201 E. Barrett Street from CBD to R-10.
The property owner recently submitted an application to rezone the property
from Central Business District (CBD) to a residential zone (R-10) to assist in
the sale of the property as a residential dwelling. It was later found that
there was a discrepancy in the county’s reported zoning and the Town of
Carthage zoning map and a rezoning was not needed as the property was already
zoned R-10. Applicant has withdrawn the application, the public hearing may be
closed.
Request for Straight Rezoning of Parcel #20000013701 (Glendon-Carthage Road).
Developer David Chapman, on behalf of the property owners, has submitted a
request to rezone the property listed above, located on Glendon-Carthage Road,
from Industrial (I) in the northern part of the property and Thoroughfare
Business District (TBD) in the lower portion of the property to Residential (R-
10) for the purpose of developing a residential subdivision of approximately 31
homes. As with the previous cases, this matter has not gone before the Planning
Board for review. Mrs. Yopp asks the Board of Commissioners to continue this
public hearing to their next regular meeting.
Upon a motion made by Commissioner Sadovnikov, and seconded by Commissioner
Bonillo, the Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to continue the public hearing to
their next meeting to be held February 21, 2022.
NEW BUSINESS
Town of Carthage Audit Report
Lee Grissom, a representative of S. Preston Douglas and Associates, presented
the independent audit report on the Town’s financial operation for fiscal year
2020-2021. The following findings were made:
The General Fund added $23,391 in revenue above expenses.
The Water and Sewer Fund had a loss of $254,641 associated with a prepayment of
$354,000 in engineering and other expenses associated with the phase one sewer
expansion project. The purchase of a sewer camera ($88,000) also contributed to
the loss.
Unassigned fund balance in the General Fund was $1,324,129 or 45.18% of the
total General Fund expenditures. This figure is up 32.71% from last year.
Ideally, the Town would like to get to and maintain at least an unassigned fund
balance of 50%. If the Town had not prepaid the $354,000 in sewer project
expansion expenses (which is reimbursable) the Sewer Fund would have had
revenue above expenses of $100,000 and the unassigned fund balance in this
enterprise fund would have also increased.
Not enough separation of duties in the Finance department. This finding will
continue until the Town can add additional staff.
Reconciliation of bank accounts not conducted in a timely fashion. Due to the
Finance Director’s personal loss and hardships associated with the COVID-19
pandemic the reconciliations became back logged and it has proved difficult for
the Finance Director to catch up with these tasks while working in the office
and at home. However, because this was an anomaly caused by the pandemic, this
issue should not occur in the future.
A full audit report shall be kept on file in the offices of the Finance
Director and Town Clerk. The report is attached to these minutes as Exhibit F.
Employee Service Recognition
Moved to the Manager’s Report.
Emergency Water Service Agreement.
The Board of Commissioners were presented with an agreement between the Town of
Carthage and the Town of Southern Pines to renew the current standing agreement
for another 5 years.
Upon a motion by Commissioner Bonillo, seconded by Commissioner Tanner the
Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to renew the Emergency Water Service
Agreement.
Resolution of Appreciation.
Town staff presented the Board of Commissioners with a Resolution of
Appreciation for N.C. Representative Allen McNeill and Senator Tom McInnis for
their efforts and dedication to securing funding for the Town of Carthage in
the 2022 State Budget.
Upon a motion by Commissioner Tanner, seconded by Commissioner Bonillo, the
Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to approve the Resolution of Appreciation.
Voluntary petition for contiguous annexation; call for public hearing.
Property owners Victoria Riddle and Samuel Riddle have petitioned the Town of
Carthage for voluntary contiguous annexation of a parcel of land identified as
PID# 00005621 located on Niagara-Carthage Road beside the Sandhills Community
College Larry R. Caddell Public Safety Training Center for the purpose of
developing a residential subdivision.
The Town Clerk has determined that the request may be certified as sufficient
and has attached the Certificate of Sufficiency. It has also been determined
that this request supports the town’s long-term objectives, and that annexation
of this property means consistency in service provision to the subdivision will
be improved. The property is already in the Fire Department’s jurisdiction.
Annexation is a requirement for the provision of Town water and sewer (although
the applicant is not requesting sewer at this time).
Upon a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo, and seconded by Commissioner
Tanner, the Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to 1) accept the petition for
voluntary annexation #22-01 as requested by Victoria Riddle and Samuel Riddle;
2) accept the Town Clerk’s Certificate of Sufficiency; 3) adopt a resolution
calling for Public Hearing on February 21, 2022; and 4) place this items on the
February 21, 2022 agenda for Board action under New Business.
223/227 Westview Road Request for Conditional Zoning.
Property owner, Robert Chrystler, has submitted a request to rezone his
property located at 227 Westview Road (PID# 00006548) to allow the approval of
an existing, illegal nonconforming structure, with an address of 223 Westview
Road, that has existed on the property since at least the year 1990-2001. The
property is currently for sale and insurance regulations prohibit the coverage
of accessory dwelling if it is not properly approved.
Upon a motion made by Commissioner Sadovnikov, and seconded by Commissioner
Barber, the Board of Commissioners voted to call for a public hearing for the
Conditional Zoning request submitted for 223/227 Westview Road to be held at
the next regular meeting to be held February 21, 2022.
Police Cadet.
Police Chief Bart Davis and Town Manager Tom Robinson have discussed the
difficulty in hiring new police officers and that other jurisdictions are
recruiting and hiring candidates before they complete their basic Law
Enforcement Training program in response to this. Chief David presented a
letter to the Board of Commissioners for their consideration to also recruit
and hire a police cadet while attending the BLET training.
Upon a motion made by Commissioner Tanner, and seconded by Commissioner Barber,
the Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to allow the Police Chief to hire a person
before they go to BLET training so that the Town can ensure that it fills one
or both of the vacant positions.
OLD BUSINESS
Re-introduction of proposed Rules of Procedure.
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, explained that she recently discovered that in early
2020, Town Attorney T.C. Morphis, drafted a set of Rules of Procedure for
adoption by the Board of Commissioners. The Rules of Procedure were presented
to the Board of Commissioners at a regular meeting soon after but that the
matter did not come back up for a decision in following meetings. Mrs. Yopp
wishes to reintroduce the Rules of Procedure and asks that the Board of
Commissioners read through them and record any changes that they wish to make
for consideration during their next regular meeting. No action necessary.
Amendments to Resolution #20-04 to Rebuild Carthage Elementary School.
Item moved to agenda Item 8-C.
CLOSED SESSION
Pursuant to NCGS 143-813.11(a)(6) a closed session was held to consider the
qualification, competence, performance, character, fitness, conditions of
appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual public
officer or employee or prospective public officer or employee.
Upon a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo and seconded by Commissioner Barber,
the Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to move into a closed session for the
purposes of conducting business as described above.
OTHER BUSINESS OF THE BOARD.
None.
ADJOURNMENT
After returning to the public portion of the meeting from a closed session, and
upon a motion made by Commissioner Bonillo, and seconded by Commissioner
Tanner, the Board of Commissioners voted 5-0 to adjourn the public meeting at
approximately 9:00 p.m.
FEBRUARY 21, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DATE:      Monday, February 21, 2022
TIME:         6:30 P.M.
LOCATION:      McDonald Building
         207 McReynolds Street
         Carthage, North Carolina
Present at the meeting were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-Tem John McDonald
and Commissioners Brent Tanner and Anton Sadovnikov. Absent from the meeting
were Commissioners Dan Bonillo and Al Barber. A quorum of the board was
established.
1.   CALL TO ORDER 
– Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
2.   INVOCATION
– Mayor Pro-Tem John McDonald gave the opening prayer.
3.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
– Local citizen and Girl Scout, Isabelle Bonillo, led the room in the Pledge of
Allegiance.
4.   AGENDA APPROVAL
– The board unanimously approved the agenda as presented with no additions or
deletions.
5.   CONSENT AGENDA
All items listed below are considered routine and were enacted by one motion.
No separate discussion was held.
A.   Minutes from the January 18, 2022 Regular Meeting.
B.   Budget Amendment #7 – Sale of police department equipment.
C.   Budget Amendment #8 – Payment in lieu for a shared use path.
Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve the consent agenda as presented.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
6.   PUBLIC COMMENT
Local resident, Jonathan Watts, addressed the board with his concern regarding
the landscape buffer to be installed on the perimeter of his property as part
of the new Carriage Hill development. Mr. Watts asked if the board might
consider requiring some type of surety bond to ensure that the developer or
town will replace any dead vegetation. The board directed town staff to address
this concern with the developer.
7.   REPORTS
   A.   MANAGER’S REPORT
   Town Manager, Tom Robinson, gave the Manager’s report and addressed the
following topics: 1) Little River development is now managed by Jim Huffstetler
of Rotunda Land Development and the town continues to work with Mr. Huffstetler
to finalize the conditional zoning ordinance for presentation to the board; 2)
Molly Goodman has been hired as interim Town Planner while Kathy Liles, current
Town Planner, recovers from surgery; 3) Mr. Robinson announced that he will be
retiring at the end of June 2022; 4) two businesses have contacted town staff
with interest in purchasing the historic Tyson and Jones Buggy Company office
building on Ray Street. Town staff needs to develop a request for proposals
tailored to the type of development desired for the building. Kathy Liles to
lead this effort upon her return; 5) Mr. Robinson has been working with town
department to identify items to be covered in the 2022 Budget Planning session.
Date of meeting to be selected later in the agenda; 6) Phase one of the sewer
expansion project is proceeding as planned and is on schedule; 7) Town staff
receive regular questions and requests for information regarding residential
development. Town staff are working diligently to keep up with and process
developments already underway.
8.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   NEW TOWN MANAGER CANDIDATE SEARCH
Mr. Robinson introduced Lee Worsley, Executive Director of the Triangle J
Council of Governments and described their capability to help the town search
for a new, full-time town manager. Mr. Worsley will work with the Board of
Commissioners to outline the search process, help to facilitate interviews,
work with town attorney to craft any agreements/contracts and assist in the
onboarding process once a manager is chosen. The next step would be to select a
date to begin working on the candidate profile. There are two options for
accomplishing this, the Mayor and Mayor Pro-Tem can work directly with Mr.
Worsely on most of these matters and submit reports for the entire board to
review or the full Board of Commissioners may participate in the entire
process.
Mayor Chalflinch asked for a motion to accept the proposal to work with the
TJCOG on finding a new town manager. Mayor Pro-Tem McDonald motioned to accept
the proposal to work with the TJCOG and to set the first meeting to create a
candidate profile for Thursday, March 10, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. to be held at the
Carthage Fire Department training room located at 4396 Hwy. 15-501. These
meetings are open to the public.
   B.   A PROCLAMATION ON THE IMPORTANCE OF GIRL SCOUTS TO TODAY’S GIRLS
Local citizen and Girl Scout Troop Leader, Dolores Bonillo, requested that
Mayor Chalflinch consider the adoption of the proclamation recognizing the
importance of Girl Scouts and honoring their efforts by declaring March 12 th
to be Girl Scout Day in the Town of Carthage. By the virtue of authority vested
in Mayor Chalflinch it was proclaimed that the 12 th of March is now “Girl
Scout Day” in the Town of Carthage, North Carolina.
   C.   SANDHILLS COMMUNITY COLLEGE PUBLIC SAFETY TRAINING CENTER ZONING
As a result of the proposed annexation and development of a parcel of land next
door to the SCC Public Safety Training Center it was discovered that the
college’s property is zoned R-20 and was never properly rezoned to accommodate
the uses currently taking place there. The Town of Carthage Unified Development
Ordinance considers this a non-conforming use and therefore uses on the
property cannot be expanded until zoned industrial or commercial. Mr. Robinson
has informed SCC that a rezoning application is needed to initiate the process
of rezoning the property.
SCC is concerned that the proposed residential development beside their parcel
will experience noise and odors as a part of the safety training conducted at
the site. They are also concerned that homebuyers will not be properly informed
of the sounds and activities that take place at the training facility. One of
the uses proposed at the college’s site is a shooting range for weapons
training. Mr. Robinson explained that if residential development moves forward,
the college will need to shift to an indoor shooting range to limit noise as
much as possible.
Mr. Robinson asked town attorney, T.C. Morphis, present in-person at the
meeting, how the town or property owners may go about informing potential
homebuyers of these uses. Mr. Morphis feels that a sign, as proposed by the
representatives of SCC present at the meeting, would be helpful and feels that
the town and college should be proactive in this matter. A plat map also could
have a note that addresses how the developer and town could ensure this matter
is made noticeable to neighbors and potential home buyers. The first step would
be for the college to post an informational sign on their property. Mr.
Robinson recommended speaking with the developer of the proposed residential
neighborhood regarding the pond which is owned by the college and sits at the
heart of the proposed subdivision.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, feels that the town and developer will need to
address the suitability of the land for the proposed use of a subdivision.
However, the matter tonight is for annexation and Mr. Robinson is concerned
that annexation prior to subdivision approval is not needed. He explained that
an annexation can only be undone through an act of the General Assembly known
as deannexation.
No motions were required in this matter as it was only a point of discussion
for the Board of Commissioner’s consideration in the annexation of parcel ID
#20000013701 to be considered later in the meeting.
   D.   SET DATE FOR BUDGET PLANNING WORKSHOP
Mr. Robinson passed around a list of items that he has identified with town
staff for the 2022 budget planning session. This session is typically held on a
Saturday and with increased development in Carthage it will be a long session
this year. Town staff recommends March 12th, 2022 as the best date for this
meeting. The Board agrees with this date and set the start time of the meeting
to be 8:00 a.m. This meeting is open to the public.
9.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
   A.   RILEY’S REACH (PARCEL ID# 20000013701) REZONING REQUEST PUBLIC HEARING
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 6:58 p.m. Applicant David Chapman
has requested to rezone the above listed parcel, located on Glendon-Carthage
Road and across from the Fred Smith Company asphalt plant from TBD to R-20 for
the purpose of developing a residential subdivision. The request has not yet
been heard by the Planning Board as Mr. Chapman requested that they continue
the matter to their March 3rd meeting. This public hearing will need to be
continued until the Planning Board has heard the matter. Mayor Chalflinch
closed the public hearing.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to continue the public hearing for parcel ID#
20000013701 known as Riley’s Reach to the next regular Board of Commissioner’s
meeting scheduled for March 21, 2022 at 6:30 p.m. Commissioner Tanner seconded
the motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
   B.   ORDINANCE #22-01 – CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 7:00 p.m. Mr. Robinson explained
that annexation is not needed to develop a property but that it is required in
order to have town utilities serve the property. With concerns expressed
tonight by Sandhills Community College staff, Mr. Robinson asks that the Board
of Commissioners consider this statement. Shane Sanders, present in-person and
representing David Chapman (Developer) who submitted the request agreed that
any homebuyers should be made aware of activities next door. Mr. Sanders stated
that they wish to annex into the town so that the property can be developed
with water service as wells do not make sense. Mr. Sanders feels that the Mr.
Chapman would be happy to meet with SCC to discuss matter of ways to inform
potential homebuyers further. A subdivision plan has not been presented at this
time as this matter is only to consider annexation of the property into the
town limits for the purpose of developing a subdivision. Mayor Chalflinch
closed the public hearing.
Mayor Pro-Tem McDonald motions to adopt Ordinance #22-01 to extend the
corporate limits of the Town of Carthage, North Carolina by voluntary
contiguous annexation under the authority granted by General Statute 160A-58.2.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
   C.   LITTLE RIVER – CONDITIONAL ZONING
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 7:24 p.m. Applicant Jim
Huffstetler on behalf of Rotunda Land Development Group for Little River Farms
is requesting to amend the conditional zoning ordinance adopted August 7, 2021.
Town staff have not had sufficient time to review the amendments before
presenting them to the Board of Commissioners. Town staff asks that the board
continue the public hearing to their next meeting. Mayor Chalflinch closed the
public hearing.
Commissioner Tanner motion to continue the public hearing to the next Board of
Commissioner’s meeting to be held March 21, 2022. Commissioner Sadovnikov
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
   D.   223/227 WESTVIEW ROAD – CONDITIONAL ZONING
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 7:25 p.m. Applicant and property
owner, Robert Chrystler, request conditional zoning from R-20 to R-20-CZ to
allow the existing, detached accessory dwelling to be a conforming use on
parcel number 00006548. Interim Planner, Molly Goodman, explained that this
decision could be a difficult one for the Board of Commissioners because
accessory dwelling units are not allowed by town’s UDO. Mrs. Goodman described
the structure and that it has been standing for many years, that is has its own
mailing address issued by the County and that the County permitting office has
issued several permits for work to the structure over several years.
Consistency with the Land Use Plan. Mrs. Goodman explained that this area is
depicted as residential/institutional and that a change to conditional zoning
for an accessory dwelling unit does not change the use, it only affects
density. Goal one ‘Protection of the Aesthetic Quality of the Town’ and Goal
four ‘Preserving existing Residential Neighborhoods’ are the only goals
relevant to this request. With regard to goal one, the structure has been in
place for 21 years and appears to have been maintained. However, without
documentation, it is unknown if it was built to state building code at that
time. Any improvements made since then have been made with permits. Kristin
Hylton, representative for Robert Chrystler, has submitted an inspection report
of the structure and receipts showing where all deficiencies have been repaired
and brought up to code. Goal four addresses the encroachment of incompatible
land uses. After a study of the request and the structure is was determined
that although the use is not incompatible it is a higher density than allowed
in R-20.
Town staff recommends the following conditions be placed on the request, if
approved.
   1.   The property owner shall indicate in writing acceptance of all
conditions of approval. Conditions shall run with the land.
   2.   R-20-CZ zoning is approved allowing for all R-20 uses as identified in
the table of permitted uses but also including one detached accessory dwelling
unit on the parcel.
   3.   A home inspection shall be made by a licensed inspector in the State of
North Carolina to ensure that the accessory dwelling unit is safe for
residential use. A copy of the inspection shall be provided to the town within
thirty (30) days of signature on the conditional zoning. If the inspection
identifies any defects that present a threat to public health, they shall be
remedied within ninety (90) days of the inspection. If this condition is not
met, the building may not be used as an accessory dwelling unit.
   4.   The conditional zoning allows the accessory dwelling unit as it is
currently built; it may not be expanded or enlarged.
Commissioner Tanner motioned that the proposed conditional zoning request is
consistent with the 1999 Land Use Plan. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carried 3-0.
Prior to the next motion, Mrs. Liles explained that board could delete
condition three since the homeowner has provided this information already.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motions to approve the conditional zoning request with
all conditions as written. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carried 3-0.
   E.   SOUTHBURY PHASE THREE - CONDITIONAL ZONING
Mrs. Liles explained that applicant David Chapman originally came before the
board seeking a straight rezoning for this project. Due to concerns expressed
by the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners as well as the public Mr.
Chapman sought conditional zoning instead to negotiate conditions to help
alleviate concerns. The predominant issue was the proposed connected road from
this section of the Southbury neighborhood to Bingham Street. Mr. Chapman has
since revised the plan and shows the roadway no longer connecting to Bingham
Street. The Planning Board and Mr. Chapman were amenable to an emergency access
road instead but that it is not opened for public use at this time.
A spot zoning analysis for the request was conducted and goes on this record as
not constituting a spot rezoning. The spot zoning report is and does become a
part of this record and can be reviewed in the Town Clerk’s office. Mrs. Liles
read the conditions recommended by staff. They are:
   1.   The property owner shall indicate in writing acceptance of all
conditions of approval. Conditions shall run with the land.
   2.   R-10-CZ zoning is approved subject to development occurring consistent
with the conceptual drawing except as modified by these conditions.
   3.   The minimum lot area shall 10,000 square feet. The minimum lot width
shall be 70 feet.
   4.   The applicant shall provide for a gated emergency exit to Bingham
Street. The width of the emergency exit shall be established at time of
preliminary plat but will be no less than 20 feet and will be subject to
approval by the Fire Chief and County Fire Marshall.
   5.   The applicant shall provide for a sidewalk along one side of the road
that connects to development to the south and for pedestrian connectivity to
Saunders Street and Pinehurst Avenue.
   6.   At least one acre of green space shall be available on site for use by
residents.
   7.   Open space shall be maintained by a homeowner’s association and will
not be assumed by the town.
   8.   A preliminary plat shall be reviewed by staff and the Planning Board.
The Planning Board shall be delegated approval authority for the preliminary
plat; the plat will not have to go before the Board of Commissioners. Staff
shall approve construction drawings and final plats.
Mrs. Liles recommended revising condition four so that the Right-of-Way shall
be established as no less than the width of Vick Street, that a gate with lock
shall be installed at end of Vick Street and that the entrance shall be
designated as a Right-of-Way but not developed into roadway for public use.
There will still be access to phase three at Cagle Lane. Mayor Chalflinch
closed the public hearing.
Commissioner Tanner motions that this rezoning request is consistent with the
1999 Land Use Plan goals four and six. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the
motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the conditional rezoning with the
conditions as stated above except that condition four be amended to read allow
the Right-of-Way conditions as described by Mrs. Liles. Commissioner Tanner
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carried 3-0.
   F.   THE FRED SMITH COMPANY (FSC II, LLC) ASPHALT PLANT – CONDITIONAL ZONING
Mayor Chalflinch calls the public hearing to order at 7:52pm
Mrs. Liles began the proceedings with a description of the request. FSC II, LLC
is requesting Conditional Zoning for six (6) parcels of land for an existing
and ongoing non-conforming use (asphalt plant – formerly Riley Paving) from R-
10, Industrial (I), R-20 and RM-10 to I-CZ. Originally, FSC II, LLC was only
seeking to build new silos but upon research by town staff it was identified
that the parcels were zoned in a variety of districts and so Conditional Zoning
is being sought to rezone them all to Industrial (I) to accommodate asphalt
plant uses.
The parcels are mostly in the Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) and is
subject to town zoning. The site is served by well water and a septic system.
The matter went before the Planning Board at their regular meeting on February
3rd. There was much public comment about nuisance noise, light, dust, trash and
odors. The maximum height allowance in any district is 35 feet. The silos will
exceed that limit which is why Conditional Zoning is needed. The public did not
raise issues with the height of the silos. A visual analysis does not reveal
that the silos will dominate the viewscape. A review of the 1999 Land Use Plan
shows that goals one, four, and five will be affected. Mrs. Liles stated the
goals and their purpose and addressed how the proposal may affect them.
A spot zoning analysis was conducted, the results of which were discussed with
the Board. It was determined that this rezoning request does not constitute a
spot rezoning.
Town staff recommends the following conditions:
   1.   The maximum height of silos shall be 70’ tall with an additional 15’
allowance for construction crane. Any future structures shall be limited to 35’
tall as allowed for the district unless otherwise addressed as part of a new
site plan and conditional zoning amendment.
   2.   All stormwater (if required) and air permits shall be copied to the
town prior to construction.
   3.   A combination of 20’ landscaped buffer and a solid 6’ fence be
installed on parcel five to reduce visibility, noise and dust to the adjacent
residential homes as shown on the site plan.
   4.   The following list of uses are approved subject to site plan approval:
asphalt plant – manufacturing, outdoor open material bulk storage yard, vehicle
and equipment storage, vehicle repair and servicing, bulk storage of flammable
liquids, wireless communications including tower and facilities, ancillary
office uses. Along with these specified uses, the inclusion of uses normal and
accessory to the operation of an asphalt plant and telecommunication facility
are allowed. However, any potential for the burning of contaminated soils would
require an amendment to the conditional zoning approval.
The Planning Board recommended approval of the project and that it is
consistent with the 1999 Land Use Plan to the Board of Commissioners with the
addition of the following three conditions:
   1.   That the applicant shall develop a berm or barrier to limit noise and
dust on adjoining properties and that the type and dimensions be identified
when they go to the Board of Commissioners. The Planning Board wishes to amend
this condition to state that the berm or barrier be a permanent, engineered
solution not a temporary fix that can be moved such as piles of sand, which was
previously done by the prior owner.
   2.   FSC II, LLC shall remove all debris along Simpson Road.
   3.   FSC II, LLC shall assess the standing water around the property based
on reported observations to verify it is not uncontrolled run off from the
site.
A petition signed by thirty-one citizens requesting a noise barrier be
installed around the facility. This petition is and does become a part of these
minutes. A letter written by attorneys Clyde Holt and Erin Catlett of Fox
Rothschild, LLP, was submitted to town staff for presentation to the Board of
Commissioners explaining how they have already addressed some of the concerns
expressed by the nearby residents and Planning Board members prior to this
public hearing. This letter is and does become part of these minutes. The
letter further states that FSC II, LLC wishes to install a barrier in the form
of a 6’ tall, solid wood, privacy fence with a 20’ landscape buffer on the side
of the fence facing Simpson Road.
Bailey Watkins, Vice President of the Piedmont Division of FSC, was called upon
to answer questions asked by the Board of Commissioners regarding environmental
impacts that the silos and storage of asphalt may bring. Mr. Watkins stated
that environmental impacts will be minimal, however there may be dust stirred
up by the trucks entering/leaving the facility. The stormwater permit issued by
the state will not allow the roads within the site to be paved, which would
reduce dust impacts. In response to nuisance noise, Mr. Watkins explained that
75% of the asphalt they produce is for use by the NCDOT and surrounding larger
cities. Mr. Watkins explained that there are times that the plant will operate
at night and during weekends as required by these contracts. Noise output from
the new upgrades will not increase or decrease the noise already occurring at
the site. There will be no increase in storage of flammable liquids. FSC II,
LLC must follow strict procedures for storing flammable liquids and dealing
with spills on soil. FSC II, LLC would not expand the plant’s production
capabilities as they are regulated by their NC Air Quality permit. Expansion of
structures and uses as proposed for this Conditional Zoning request does not
allow the plant to increase output of asphalt or its byproducts and so there is
no need to expand the plant itself. Mr. Watkins stated that this request is
just to modernize the property.
The floor was opened to public comment. Citizens in attendance expressed
disagreement with Mr. Watkins’ statements that the bulk of the dust is coming
from the trucks but from the plant itself as well. Citizens do not feel that a
6’ privacy fence will affect the dust that settles on the neighboring houses.
The existing wooded landscape along Simpson Road is thin and does not block
dust. Citizens feel that a very tall, solid surface wall like the ones seen
along the highways in Raleigh, NC would be the only way to cut down on the
noise from the plant, especially when running at night. The previous owner of
the plant used to keep a very tall sand pile that would block most of the view,
noise and dust from the neighbors. The previous owner also cut the trees that
surrounded the site along Simpson Road which assisted in blocking noise and
dust. Mayor Chalflinch asked if the plant could water down the property during
the summer when it is dry and dusty, Mr. Watkins agreed that this would be
possible.
Withers and Ravenel, engineering firm for FSC II, LLC stated that any type of
wall or large structure for a barrier would require taking out the rest of the
trees and further reduce the ability to block dust and sound. FSC II, LLC would
prefer to supplement the wooded area by planting additional trees and shrubs to
increase density of the wooded perimeter buffer.
Mayor Chalflinch closed the public hearing at 8:52 p.m. Town Attorney, T.C.
Morphis recommends the following additions/amendments to the conditions
proposed by town staff and the Planning Board:
For town staff recommended condition number three, it is recommended that
language be added to include that FSC II, LLC shall maintain the wooden privacy
fence in good condition, that new landscape buffer plants be watered until
properly established and then maintained by facility owner to include the
timely replacement of dead or dying vegetation as needed and that a landscape
plan showing the location, quantity and varieties of plants to be used be
submitted to the town staff for approval.
Commissioner Tanner motioned to adopt a statement of Land Use Plan Consistency
for the proposed conditonal zoning. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carries 3-0.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motions to approve the conditional zoning request with
staff and Planning Board recommended conditions as well as the amendments to
the conditions. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 3-0. Mayor Chalflinch closed the public hearing at 8:57 p.m.
10.   OLD BUSINESS
   A.   RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
A draft set of Rules of Procedure were included in the agenda packets. Mr.
Morphis, after meeting with Town Manager, Tom Robinson, and Town Clerk, Emily
D. Yopp, revised the original draft and an edited copy has been given to each
board member. This copy is and does become a part of these minutes and may be
viewed by request in the office of the Town Clerk. The purpose of Rules of
Procedure is to serve as a guide to boards for conducting their meetings.
Commissioner Tanner recommends the addition of the correct General Statute
reference in motion six of the Rules of Procedure.
With no other recommendations or deliberations Commissioner Tanner motions to
adopt the Rules of Procedure with the suggested amendment. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 3-0.
11.   OTHER BUSINESS
   A.   APPROVAL OF A CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST POLICY
As required by the State of North Carolina for the funds allocated to the Town
of Carthage in the recent state budget approval, the Town must submit a signed
conflict-of-interest policy. The State provided a sample policy and it was
reviewed by Town Attorney T.C. Morphis. The document presented to the Board in
their agenda packet is a first draft and does not contain all of the
recommended edits. Mr. Morphis distributed a final draft of the policy and this
copy is and does become a part of these minutes.
After the board reviewed the revised version, Commissioner Tanner motioned to
approve the conflict-of-interest policy as amended by Mr. Morphis. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 3-0.
12.   CLOSED SESSION
Mayor Pro-Tem McDonald motioned to adjourn the regular meeting and enter into a
closed session pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11(a)(3) at 9:09 pm.
13.   ADJOURNMENT
After returning from closed session Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn
the public meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 3-0. Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m.
MARCH 10, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL CALLED MEETING
DATE:   March 10, 2022
TIME:      6:00 P.M.
LOCATION:   Carthage Fire Department Training Room
      4396 Hwy. 15-501
      Carthage, NC
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald
and Commissioners Brent Tanner, Dan Bonillo, and Anton Sadovnikov. Commissioner
Al Barber was absent. Additional attendees included Town Manager, Tom Robinson,
Town Clerk Emily Yopp and Lee Worsley of the Triangle J Council of Government.
1.   CALL TO ORDER
- Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
2.   TOWN MANAGER CANDIDATE PROFILE MEETING
Mr. Robinson introduced Mr. Worsley from TJCOG to lead the board in the
meeting. Mr. Worsley introduced himself and gave a description of his
background. He is currently helping the town of Kinley, NC find a new manager
and is in several discussions with other towns to find managers, planners and
various other staff.
Goal for this meeting is to discuss what the board wants to see in a town
manager and create a candidate profile. The board viewed examples of active job
advertisements for some other NC communities. Discussion ensued regarding the
skills, education and qualities the board wishes to see in a candidate. The
board discussed educational requirements and internal qualities that they felt
a manager of the town should have.
The board was presented with the NC League of Municipalities’ latest salary
comparison chart so that they may get an idea of the average salary of town
managers across the state. There was discussion regarding the recent pay scale
update the Town of Carthage adopted within the last few years and how it might
guide the salary of a full-time manager. Mr. Worsley will take the information
discussed and create a draft job advertisement for the board’s review.
Candidates will be interviewed in a closed session as allowed by NC General
Statutes. The vote to appoint a town manager will occur in an open session.
Mr. Worsley is going to work on a schedule of deadlines that the board may
consider. Commissioner Tanner recommended posting the job advertisement as soon
as possible and working out the deadlines as the search progresses. It is also
recommended that the applications be left open until the position is filled.
Mr. Worsley stated that the search could take around 4-6 months.
With no other business, Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the meeting.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0. Mayor
Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at 7:48 p.m.
MARCH 21, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MINUTES
DATE:      March 21, 2022
TIME:         6:30 p.m.
LOCATION:      McDonald Building
         207 McReynolds Street
         Carthage, North Carolina
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro-Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Brent Tanner, Dan Bonillo, Anton Sadovnikov and Al Barber.
1.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
2.   INVOCATION
– Commissioner Bonillo gave the prayer.
3.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
   Commissioner Barber led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance.
4.   AGENDA APPROVAL
   Town Clerk Emily Yopp requested that the board add the appointment of Mary
Ansley to the Appearance Committee to the agenda before approving. The board
unanimously approved the agenda as presented with the addition of Mary Ansley’s
appointment as requested.
5.   CONSENT AGENDA APPROVAL
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the following items as listed on
the consent agenda; 1) minutes from the February 21, 2022 regular meeting; 2)
minutes from the March 10, 2022 special meeting; 3) budget amendment #9; and 4)
budget amendment #10. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carries 5-0.
Mary’s appointment – Anton. Brent 2 nd . All ayes.
6.   PUBLIC COMMENT 
   Mayor Chalflinch opened the floor to public comment. A local resident
addressed the Board of Commissioners regarding their concerns with an ongoing
problem with the sewer backing up into their home. Town Manager, Tom Robinson,
gave an explanation as to why the town is not responsible for the private sewer
service line located on a private lot next door to this home which is
responsible for the issue. The town may enter 15’ into a public right-of-way
(ROW) but this clogged line is not in the ROW. The main sewer line is located
behind their neighbor’s garage.
   Mr. Robinson asked if the residents would like to make an appointment to
discuss this matter more thoroughly with the Public Works Director. Mr.
Robinson explained that a sewer lift station is needed to correct the issues.
Public Works has been using the jet truck, at no cost to these citizens, to
clear the lines but tree roots continue to grow into the line and cause the
back up. It was clarified that the town water/sewer system operates as a system
funded by the payment of utility bills and system development fees; taxpayer
money is not used to fund the utility system. The taxpayer’s money goes into
the General Fund.
   Citizen Jonathan Watts addressed the board next regarding the easement that
will be needed by Duke Energy Progress to bury the electrical lines between Mr.
Watts’ home and the new Carriage Hill development. A 15’ easement will be
needed and will be shared between the two parcels. Mr. Watts was asked to make
an appointment with town staff to discuss his requests as Mr. Webster begins to
start construction.
7.   REPORTS
   Mr. Robinson gave the Manager’s Report and gave updates on the Little River
development, the Buggy Building, budget planning activities, continued new
development requests received by town staff and the search from a new town
manager. Mr. Robinson asked if the board would consider asking Mr. Worsley of
the Triangle J Council of Governments and point of contact for the manager
search, to speed up the timelines for the search as Mr. Robinson would like to
be retired before September 2022.
8.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   PROPOSED ORDINANCE UPDATES BY BRANDON EMORY
Brandon Emory, owner of ACE Code Enforcement, a third-party provider used by
the town to enforce town ordinances and regulations presented the board with
his findings and recommendations regarding updates to the town’s General Code
of Ordinances and Unified Development Ordinance (UDO). Mr. Emory is proposing a
modification to the overgrowth ordinance, open storage ordinance, and an
addition of a Chronic Violator Ordinance. Mr. Emory has also recommended that
the Town update the UDO to address storage of excess vehicles at commercial
properties, particularly automotive businesses (i.e., mechanic shops). The
Planning Board has asked that the new ordinance give a clear definition for
what is considered ‘open storage’.
Town Planner, Kathy Liles, will be drafting language that the board may
consider for this update at their next meeting. These updates are consistent
with other municipalities in the state that Mr. Emory conducts code enforcement
for. Mr. Emory recommends that the ordinance include the requirement for a
public hearing prior to the removal of junk or nuisance vehicles, even though a
public hearing is not a requirement by General Statute. ACE Code Enforcement
conducts their own hearings with the person in violation, but the board may
require a public hearing if they choose. A list of recommended fees was given
to the board members for their consideration with regard to abatement mowing
and debris removal. Ordinance changes and adoptions will be brought before the
board as part of a public hearing. The board would like to see ordinance prior
to this hearing.
   B.   ORDINANCE #22-04 DECLARING ROAD CLOSURE FOR BUGGY FESTIVAL
An ordinance to temporarily close highways NC 24/27 at Ray Street, NC 24/27 at
McNeill Street and NC 22 at Saunders Street for the purposes of conducting the
Buggy Festival was presented to the board. Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to
approve the ordinance. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 5-0.
   C.   PROPOSED THREE-WAY STOP AT BINGHAM AND VICK STREETS
Mayor Chalflinch was approached by citizens living in this area and explained
the reason for the request. There was discussion around whether the road should
be altered to better define this junction as an intersection by removing the
curve. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the installation of stop signs
to create an all-way stop at Bingham and Vick Streets. Commissioner Tanner
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 5-0.
   D.   AUDIT CONTRACT WITH S. PRESTON DOUGLAS
Every year town financials are audited. The Board approved a 3-year extension
with S. Preston Douglas in 2021. Presented here is the contract that authorizes
the 3-year extension, a copy of which is and does become a part of this record.
Mr. Robinson stated that the price listed in the contract was negotiated prior
to presentation of the contract and that the cost of $20,000 is per year and
paid at completion of the audit. Commissioner Tanner motioned that the Board
accept the Contract to Audit Accounts for the Town of Carthage for the Fiscal
Year ending June 30, 2022. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 5-0.
   E.   RESOLUTION R-22-03 DECLARING SURPLUS EQUIPMENT
Police Chief Davis explained that there are six shotguns no longer being used
that should be sold off as surplus or disposed of. Commissioner Bonillo
motioned to approve Resolution R-22-03 authorizing that the weapons be declared
surplus equipment and to list them for sale on GovDeals.com or trade them in
for new equipment. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 5-0.
   F.   ORDINANCE #22-04 ABATEMENT OF 202 W. BARRETT STREET
Brandon Emory, ACE Code Enforcement, opened the discussion with a description
of the property and its continued deterioration so that it no longer meets
Minimum Housing Standards of the town’s ordinances. Mr. Emory inspected the
property with the county building inspector a few years ago and it was found
that the primary item of concern was an exterior wall that had been enclosed to
have some additional room and that the roof addition has failed and allowed
water infiltration to rot the supporting beam of this exterior wall. The County
building inspector requested an engineer to do a report on the areas of concern
but an engineer could not be found who would make the report. The second option
was to bring in a general contractor to make an assessment; but his has not
been done by Mr. Watson, the property owner. Mr. Watson has performed some work
such as painting, roofing and other repairs. However, these actions do not
alleviate the problems enough to comply with minimum housing code. ACE Code
Enforcement has conducted a hearing with Mr. Watson and he is aware of Mr.
Emory’s concerns. As requested by town staff to abate the deteriorating
structure, the Brady Herman of the Brough Law Firm is presenting an ordinance
ordering the Town of Carthage Code Enforcement officer to proceed to effectuate
the purpose of the Carthage Minimum Housing Code.
Mr. Herman explained that General Statute sets out the town’s authority with
regard to minimum housing code violations such as this. This is the 2 nd time
the town has proceeded to abate the structure at 202 W. Barrett Street. This
ordinance gives the code enforcement officer the authority to demolish, remove,
or otherwise close the dwelling to prohibit access and the cost to do this be
placed as a lien upon the property. If adopted, this ordinance is required to
be recorded with Register of Deeds. If the property owner is not willing to
vacate, there is summary ejectment action allowed by state law.
The board calls Mr. Watson’s representative, William Tyson, to speak to the
matter at 202 W. Barrett Street. Mr. Tyson previously worked as a general
contractor for 40 years. Mr. Tyson explained that the front porch damage and
decay is only structural to the porch, not the house itself. Work is being
done, however, Mr. Tyson stated there is so much work to be done that it may be
hard to see what has been done already. The Covid pandemic was cited by Mr.
Tyson as being one reason why work could no longer continue on the home for the
last two years but that work on the house has commenced again. Mr. Tyson was
also dealing medical concerns that prevented him from working on the house. Mr.
Tyson is also working with Mr. Watson to repair another property that he owns
within the town so that it may be rented to bring in income that can then be
used to repair the house at 202 W. Barrett.
Mr. Tyson explained that the roof is still leaking which makes a lot of work
unreasonable until the leaking is stopped. There has been interior structural
work although a lot of it has been walled in now and is not noticeable. Mr.
Watson is concerned he will be evicted with the misconception that he is not
taking action to repair the structure when in fact he has. Mr. Tyson stated
that the house is not in danger of falling down even though its exterior is in
poor condition. Mr. Tyson stated that the approximate cost to replace roof is
$20,000 and that a member of the Carthage Historical Committee came out in the
past and looked at the house to see if they can assist with any funding. There
has not been an update on this.
Mr. Robinson stated to the board that this home has been deteriorating since he
began working with the town 9 years ago. Mr. Robinson suggested that some type
of timeline be worked out that Mr. Watson will adhere to. Mr. Emory stated that
the matter of the roof was brought to Mr. Watson’s attention in 2018. Timelines
were established during those years as well and the timelines were never met.
The duplex property owned by Mr. Watson and that Mr. Tyson referenced is also
undergoing extensive renovations to make at least one unit livable. Mr. Emory
still recommends that an engineer inspect the structure at 202 W. Barrett
Street and create a report on the structural integrity. Mr. Tyson spoke again
to the board regarding the financial hardship that hiring an engineer and
correcting these deficiencies will bring. Mr. Watson addressed the board
regarding his recent medical conditions that prohibited him from working more
diligently on repairs to the home and is working to make money to continue the
work.
Mayor Chalflinch asked how much time Mr. Watson thinks he would need to start
making the repairs to improve the structure. Mr. Tyson requested 60 days to
allow them to get their finances and affairs in order so that they may begin
working on the home. There was further discussion between the board and Mr.
Tyson and Mr. Watson regarding timelines to present the board with a plan of
action.
Mayor Chalflinch called a quick recess at 8:05 p.m. Meeting was called to order
again at 8:15 p.m.
With no further deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo recommended that Mr. Watson
be given 60 days to get a licensed general contractor to inspect the property,
work with code enforcement and present a scope of work focusing on repairing
any structural concerns, as well as a cost estimate to make the repairs. This
report shall be presented to the Board of Commissioners by Mr. Emory and then a
deadline of 30 days shall be allowed so that Mr. Watson can show that he has
the financing available to conduct the work to bring the dwelling up to minimum
housing standards to ensure public health and safety. Commissioner Tanner
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
   G.   OFFER TO PURCHASE UTILITY EASEMENT BY NCDOT FOR BRIDGE NO. 24 ON NC 22
OVER NICK’S CREEK
Mr. Robinson explained the work being conducted on the bridge crossing Nick’s
Creek on NC 22. The NCDOT has estimated the value of the small piece of land at
$1,425.00 so that they may complete the work on the bridge. Town staff agrees
with this offer. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to accept offer to purchase.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 5-0.
9.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
   A.   RILEY’S REACH CONTINUATION REQUEST
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing on this request at 8:17 p.m. Town
Clerk Emily Yopp explained that applicant David Chapman is requesting a
continuation until the matter of a decision can be made by the board regarding
industrial uses in Carthage. Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to continue the
hearing to the next regular meeting of the board. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
   B.   LITTLE RIVER DEVELOPMENT CONDITIONAL ZONING
Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 8:10 p.m. Town Clerk Emily Yopp
explained that Little River developers and town staff are ready to present the
board with an ordinance approving conditional zoning for the purposes of
developing the Little River property. Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to
continue the public hearing to March 29 th at 6:30 p.m. inside the McDonald
Building. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-
0. Mayor Chalflinch closed the public hearing 8:22 p.m.
10.    OLD BUSINESS
   A.   CALL FOR PUBLIC HEARING TO ADOPT THE NEW CARTHAGE LAND USE PLAN
Commissioner Tanner motioned to call a public hearing for the next regularly
scheduled meeting to consider the adoption of the new land use plan.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded this motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
   B.   MINOR AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE #20-32 FOR THE CARRIAGE PLACE TOWNHOMES
DEVELOPMENT
Town Liles, Kathy Liles, explained that town staff and the applicant are
requesting minor ordinance amendments and described each amendment being
proposed. The board asked for explanation as to why concrete rolled curb was
required versus standard curbs. Mr. Robinson explained that \concrete lasts
much longer than asphalt but the Carthage Development Ordinance does not
require specific types of curbing and that research is needed to update the UDO
to reflect these different standards as Carthage grows. Commissioner Bonillo
motioned to approve the minor amendments to ordinance #20-32 as presented by
town staff. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries
5-0.
   C.   MINOR AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE #21-09 FOR THE CARRIAGE HILL DEVELOPMENT
Mrs. Liles explained that these amendments are also a product of changes in the
project and the town staff’s concerns for a lack of overflow parking for such a
high-density development. Mrs. Liles went through each amendment that requires
a change. Developer Colin Webster is amenable to providing the 1.25% surety
bond but may offer more. Mr. Webster has also stated that the bond is intended
to be made in cash. Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the minor
amendments to ordinance #21-09 as presented by town staff. Commissioner Bonillo
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
11.   OTHER BUSINESS
– None.
12.    CLOSED SESSION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to go into closed session pursuant to NCGS
143-318.11(a)(4) and (a)(3). Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carries 5-0. Mayor Chalflinch recessed the public portion of the
regular meeting at 8:39 p.m. Anton motioned. Dan 2 nd . All ayes
13.   ADJOURNMENT
   After returning from closed session Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn
the public meeting. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carries 5-0. Meeting was adjourned at 9:30 p.m
MARCH 29, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
DATE:   March 29, 2022
TIME:      6:30 p.m.
LOCATION:   McDonald Building
      207 McReynolds Street
      Carthage, North Carolina
Board members present were Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald (presiding) and
Commissioners Bonillo, Sadovnikov and Barber. Absent were Mayor Chalflinch and
Commissioner Tanner. Also present were town staff and Jim Huffstetler and
Debbie Bureau representing Little River Development Partners, LLC.
1.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Pro Tem Mcdonald called the meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.
2.   APPROVAL OF AGENDA
– The board unanimously accepted the agenda as presented with no changes.
3.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Appointment of Erin Rembert to the Appearance Committee
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to appoint Mrs. Rembert to the Appearance
committee for a term of three years. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion.
All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   B.   Resolution #22-04 to Accept Offer and Deed for Highway Right-of-Way
The board must adopt a resolution to formally accept the NCDOT’s offer of
$1,425.00 for a permanent utility easement for the purposes of replacement of
the bridge crossing Nick’s Creek. Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adopt
Resolution #22-04 accepting the NCDOT’s offer to purchase a permanent utility
easement on land owned by the Town of Carthage for a sum of $1,425.00 and as
described in the Deed for Highway Right of Way. Commissioner Bonillo seconded
the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   C.   Call for Public Hearing to Consider Non-Contiguous Annexation of 577
Union Church Road.
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented the board with a petition for voluntary, non-
contiguous annexation of 577 Union Church Road (LRK# 00006247) for the purpose
of building a single-family homes and accessing town water service. Mrs. Yopp
investigated the petition and found it to be sufficient and presented the board
with a Certificate of Sufficiency.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the resolution calling for a public
hearing on this matter to be held at the next regular meeting scheduled for
April 18, 2022. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 4-0.
4.   PUBLIC HEARING
   A.   Conditional Rezoning of Little River Farms and Resort.
Mayor Pro Tem McDonald opened the public hearing at 6:40 p.m.
Mrs. Liles was given the floor to give a history of the Little River project.
It was explained that this project was originally approved as a Planned Unit
Development (PUD) with a Conditional Use permit in May 2006. Certain aspects of
the project were built or received final approval and some aspects of the
original farm remain, such as the barns. Little River Partners, LLC is
requesting conditional zoning so that they may begin developing the property.
Mrs. Liles further described the properties and area that the Little River
project encompasses as well as its environmental conditions. The property
contains a regulatory WS-III high quality watershed which limits building to a
maximum of 24% built upon area. There is regulatory flood plain along Wads
Creek and Little River. The Three Rivers Land Trust holds a conservation
easement on the property as well.
Mrs. Liles explained the master plan as displayed on boards for the members of
the board and public to view. The master plan is divided into land use areas A-
F. Each area is assigned a particular use. Phase 1 already has plat approval
from the original approval.
Some conditions being proposed came over from the original PUD approval. Others
are different or have been altered. There is a table in the conditional zoning
ordinance that discusses the density and dimensional criteria of the
development – this will be discussed in detail later on in the hearing. Mrs.
Liles explained how appearance standards for this project can be negotiated
through the conditional zoning process, although municipalities cannot, by
statute, require them for certain developments.
Mrs. Liles briefly highlighted each condition and its purpose. Some conditions
were reserved for more in-depth discussion later in the hearing. Highways NC 22
and 15-501 will need to be assessed through a Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) as
development continues along these corridors. Jim Huffstetler stated that a TIA
was performed around 2016 and that Little River will seek to have that updated
when the time comes. Little River Boulevard could be offered to the town for
dedication, but it doesn’t have to be. Because Little River is located in a
watershed area, the town will be required to track development and built-upon
area closely as the project progresses. Utilities and trash collection will be
provided by the town. A Homeowner’s Association (HOA) will be required to
maintain the individual communities within Little River. Preliminary plats,
site plans and final plats will be required to be submitted to the Planning
Board and Board of Commissioners. Surety bonds will be required in certain
circumstances.
Allen Smith, Director of Public Works, gave an update to the board regarding
where the town is in regard to its sewer capacity and the current sewer
expansion project. He is anticipating completion at the end of 2022 into the
beginning of 2023. There was an assessment of the lift station at the Little
River property and LKC Engineering has conducted a draw down test to identify
if it will be adequate for the proposed development. A copy of the letter
outlining the test results has been given to each board member and a copy also
becomes a part of these minutes and may be viewed in the office of the Town
Clerk upon request. Any utilities running under NCDOT owned roads are required
to be moved out from under the road. There are utilities under NC 22 that will
need to be moved as the Little River project moves forward. Mr. Robinson added
that all new sewer infrastructure is well away from any NCDOT roads to prevent
this from occurring again.
Spot Zoning Analysis Test: Mrs. Liles stated that a determination on spot
zoning was made in the previous process that took place in 2021. It still
applies to this project and does not need to be done again.
The recommendations made at August 2021 public hearing for the Little River
master plan was that it was consistent with 1999 Land Use Plan. Mrs. Liles
outlined the approvals and changes that were made in August 2021 although they
are not enforceable since the original Conditional Zoning approval was never
signed and accepted by Little River Development Partners, LLC.
Mrs. Liles explained the areas that need focused discussion at this hearing and
a presentation was given on these items. Mrs. Liles asked Jim Huffstetler to
speak to Little River’s interest in going down to 4,000 square foot lots
instead of the proposed 4,500 square foot lots listed. Mr. Huffstetler
explained that they are considering smaller lots since houses will be built
smaller and because it promotes better usage of space within the development.
This would require a 5’ setback to allow 10’ between buildings. They would
design the buildings to be closer to the road/sidewalks on the front with more
room in the back yards. Jim Huffstetler can provide pictures of projects that
Rotunda Land is working on with this same design.
Mr. Robinson spoke to the board about a subdivision that town staff visited
called 12 Oaks to see an example of a high-density subdivisions built with
similar standards. The smallest lot there was 48 x 100 and town staff were
impressed with the quality of development given the density of the subdivision.
Mr. Robinson is concerned that if there are not good design standards set in
place, and smaller lots were approved, then other developers could potentially
buy the lots and develop them to a lesser quality than was originally
anticipated. Staff is comfortable with 4,500 square foot lots but only if
design standards are done well. Rear entry garages could help alleviate the
issue of cars in front of homes and provide access for the fire department if
needed. Walker Station was given as an example of development that offers this
type of garage design.
The board stated that they are amenable to allowing staff to approve final
plats and follow the authority already given to staff for approval in the UDO.
Mrs. Liles explained that the parking standards at the time of original
approval was 2.5 spots per home plus one additional space for every 10 homes.
Jim Huffstetler was asked to weigh in on parking design. The proposed 2 parking
spots per unit is not recommended by town staff as staff feel it is important
to allow space for cars to maneuver around each other without crowding into on-
street parking. Jim Huffstetler explained that townhomes are built narrowly and
only receive single car garages but that wider townhomes could be mixed in to
allow increased parking for homeowners that need it. Mr. Robinson further
explained town staff’s concerns with parking and single car garages/driveways.
For condition #10 Mrs. Liles recommended the following language be added: “For
development subject to condominium ownership, development shall be consistent
with all requirements of the North Carolina Condominium Act (NCGS Chapter 47C).
The process shall be approval of a site plan by the Planning Board, approval of
construction drawings by staff, vertical construction may begin concurrent with
infrastructure, a final plat may be approved by staff and will be executed upon
establishment of the extent of ownership. Condominium-style development may be
developed using a phase-by-phase approach and the applicant may provide surety
consistent with the requirements of the subdivision regulations for
construction of infrastructure prior to approval of the final plat.” Jim
Huffstetler stated that he was comfortable with this language.
Timing and Schedule for Building of the Trail Within Little River. Carthage has
adopted a Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan that the town staff and board members
need to consider and be consistent with. It is also important for the Town to
ensure residents of Little River have recreation opportunities as well as
recreation that can be accessed by the general public. Little River is unique
in that there is a nature conservation easement running through the property.
There are also water shed areas and other natural resources on the property.
Mrs. Liles explained what a Recreation Plan is a that this plan is being
proposed as a condition of this approval. Jim Huffstetler would like to sit
down with town staff at a later date and work out all of the concerns with
trail access and development separately as there are many factors involved in
planning this. Little River Developers, LLC has concerns that once Little River
Boulevard is connected between NC 22 and Hwy.15-501, possible increased traffic
will make any bike and pedestrian paths along that route dangerous. Discussion
was had around other ideas for developing trails and shared use paths. During
the original approval of this planned community, Little River developers
proposed over 5 miles of trails within the community until the land was donated
to the Three Rivers Land Trust, which ended the opportunity for development of
trails in this area.
The Board of Commissioners agrees with the proposed lot size of 4,500 square
feet as listed in Table 1, page 5 of the draft conditional zoning ordinance.
Jim Huffstetler also agrees to the lot size. Little River may come back before
the Board to seek Conditional Zoning at a later date if they would like to
propose reducing lot sizes in other phases to a minimum of 4,000 square feet.
Architectural standards will be required as part of the Homeowner’s
Association’s covenants and shall be reviewed by town staff prior to their
adoption to ensure conformity with the Carthage Development Ordinance and the
conditional zoning ordinance approving Little River development.
Streets within the community, as proposed, will not be wide enough for on-
street parking. The originally approved Planned Unit Development required 2.5
parking spaces per dwelling plus 1 extra space for every 10 dwellings.
Recreation Plan to be completed and submitted within 120 days of this approval
by Little River. Condition 4 language to be adjusted to reflect this.
With no other deliberation of the board Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald closed the
public hearing. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the Statement of Land
Use Plan Consistency as presented with no edits. Commissioner Sadovnikov
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve Ordinance 22-06 for the conditional
zoning of Little River Property to R-10-CZ with the following amendments;
i.   That the parking standards language be amended to state that 2.5 parking
spaces per dwelling will be required plus 1 extra space for every 10 dwellings.
ii.   That town staff be given authority to approve final plats.
iii.   For development subject to condominium ownership, development shall be
consistent with all requirements of the North Carolina Condominium Act (NCGS
Chapter 47C). The process shall be approval of a site plan by the Planning
Board, approval of construction drawings by staff, vertical construction may
begin concurrent with infrastructure, a final plat may be approved by staff and
will be executed upon establishment of the extent of ownership. Condominium-
style development may be developed using a phase-by-phase approach and the
applicant may provide surety consistent with the requirements of the
subdivision regulations for construction of infrastructure prior to approval of
the final plat.
iv.   That a Recreation Plan be completed by the beginning of phase 2 as
opposed to within 120 days of approval. The plan shall be submitted by Little
River Developers, LLC. The Board directed town staff to adjust the language in
condition #5 to reflect this.
With no other amendments, Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded Commissioner
Bonillo’s motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to close the public hearing. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 4-0.
5.   ADJOURNMENT
With no other business of the board, Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn
the meeting at 8:20 p.m. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes;
motion carries 4-0.
APRIL 18, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MINUTES
DATE:      April 18, 2022
TIME:         6:30 p.m.
LOCATION:      McDonald Building
         207 McReynolds Street
         Carthage, North Carolina
Board Members Present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch and Mayor Pro Tem McDonald as
well as Commissioners Anton Sadovnikov, Dan Bonillo, Brent Tanner and Al
Barber.
Staff Present: Tom Robinson (Town Manager), Emily Yopp (Town Clerk), Kesha
Matthews (Finance Officer), Kathy Liles (Town Planner), Bart Davis (Police
Chief), Brian Tyner (Fire Chief) and Allen Smith (Public Works Director).
Guest Speakers Present: Matthew Day (TJCOG) as well as Mark Lacy and Bill
Lester (LKC Engineering).
1.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
2.   INVOCATION
– Commissioner Barber gave the prayer.
3.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
– Commissioner Tanner led the room in the pledge.
4.   APPROVAL OF AGENDA
– Town staff requested the board’s consideration on a number of additions to
the agenda that came up last minute. They were 1) continuation of the public
hearing for the rezoning of parcel #200000013701, known as Riley’s Reach
Subdivision, by developer David Chapman; 2) a recommendation to enter into
closed session at the end of this meeting to discuss economic development of
the Tyson & Jones Buggy Building; 3) moving agenda item F under New Business to
agenda item A under New Business. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the
agenda with the two additions as described. Commissioner Tanner seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
5.   CONSENT AGENDA
– There are two items on the consent agenda; 1) approval of minutes from the
March 12, 2022 Planning Work Session meeting and 2) approval of minutes of the
March 21, 2022 Regular meeting. Commissioner Sadovnikov motion to approve the
consent agenda items. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 5-0.
6.   PUBLIC COMMENT
– None.
7.   REPORTS
   a.   Manager’s Report.
Town Manager, Tom Robinson, reported on the following topics: Little River
development, a surety bond for the Carriage Hill development, industrial zoning
in Carthage, development of the Tyson & Jones Buggy Building, town budget
planning for fiscal year 2022-2023, the search for a new town manager, phase
two of the expansion of the town’s sewer system, continued development
activity, increasing requests for annexation into the town and the need for
discussing annexation agreements with neighboring jurisdictions. Also included
in the report was an update on the need to identify sites for a new elementary
school as well as a possible middle school. Mr. Robinson asked local citizen
and member of the Carthage Century Committee, Tommy Phillips, to comment on his
progress with the establishment of a new school. Mr. Phillips gave a brief
comment on current affairs. Mr. Robinson also reported on current loss of
Public Works employees and the staff’s effort to seek a proposal for a 3 rd
party contract to conduct the mowing in Cross Hill Cemetery. The full manger’s
report is and does become a part of these minutes and may be viewed in the
office of the Town Clerk upon request.
8.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
   a.   Annexation Ordinance #22-05.
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented the board with an ordinance to approve the
non-contiguous annexation of parcel 00006247 located on 577 Union Church Road
for the purpose of receiving town water and trash pickup. Town sewer is not
needed. Commissioner Tanner motioned to adopt Ordinance #22-05 to extend the
corporate limits of the Town of Carthage. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
   b.   Adoption of the new Land Use Plan.
Matthew Day, of the Triangle J Council of Governments, presented a PowerPoint
presentation to the board regarding the purpose of a land use plan and the
development the 2040 plan up for consideration tonight. The steering committee
appointed to lead the effort in the development of the new land use plan
identified twelve goals for the town. These goals may be seen in the draft
version of the land use plan. Mr. Day described the demographics and population
trends expected for Moore County and Carthage. Mr. Day also explained that a
land use plan is not an ordinance or regulation that is required to be followed
but instead provides a vision and direction that the board will consider when
making their zoning and development decisions. Mr. Day described the zoning
districts that would be overlayed as part of the adoption of this land use
plan. Mr. Day explained that the map included in the land use plan shows a
larger area than the actual town limits and ETJ of the town. This plan only
applies to areas within the town’s jurisdiction and does not increase the town
limits or ETJ. This increased map area helps guide decisions and zoning as
annexations are requested by citizens during future growth. Public outreach
meetings were conducted and a website set up with land use plan information for
the general public’s use.
Kathy Liles addressed the board with a recommendation not to adopt the new land
use plan tonight so that the board may finalize current open discussion
regarding proposed industrial zones in Carthage and recent pressure from
developers to rezone these areas for residential use. Commissioner Sadovnikov
motioned to table the adoption of the new land use plan until the May 16 th
regular board meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carried 5-0.
9.   OLD BUSINESS
   a.   CERRI Plan Adoption.
Mr. Robinson explained the purpose of the CERRI project and its goals for
helping the Town of Carthage. Mr. Robinson introduced Tommy Phillips, who
chaired the committee. Mr. Phillips explained that a business association has
come together as a result of the CERRI project. The Carthage Century Committee
appointed a sub-committee to help with this. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to
approve Resolution #22-06 to adopt the Carthage Community Recovery and
Resiliency Initiative Plan as developed by a special committee of Carthage
citizens, NC Main Street and the Rural Planning Center. Commissioner Tanner
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
10.   NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Resolutions #22-07 and #22-08 as Recommended by LKC Engineering.
Bill Lester and Mark Lacy addressed the board with regard to the two
resolutions being presented tonight. One is for a grant opportunity with the
USDA using American Rescue Plan Recovery Act funds issued to the state.
Carthage is an at-risk community that is eligible for around $170 million in
grant funding from the state for much needed projects in the town. One
resolution would authorize the submittal of the grant application and the other
is to adopt the capital improvement plan. Mr. Lester described the amounts
(items 1-4) that will be asked for in the grant application. These items are
listed in a table in the Capital Improvement Plan on page 4. The Capital
Improvement Plan is and does become a part of these minutes and may be viewed
in the office of the Town Clerk upon request. The grant must be submitted by
May 2, 2022 and the Town could hear if it has been awarded by July or August
2022.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adopt Resolution #22-07 authorizing
approval of the Capital Improvement Plan and Asset Management Plan as presented
by LKC Engineering. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes;
motion carries 5-0.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve Resolution #22-08 authorizing
submittal of an application for grant funding to the USDA. Commissioner Tanner
seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 5-0.
   b.   Call for Public Hearing: Non-Contiguous Annexation of 1305 Hulsey Road.
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, presented a petition for noncontiguous annexation, with
vested rights, submitted by the property owners of New Covenant Fellowship
Church of Carthage, parcel #20030311, and located at 1305, 1275 and 1309 Hulsey
Road. Mrs. Yopp investigated the sufficiency of the request and submits to the
board her Certificate of Sufficiency and asks that Resolution 22-09 Fixing a
Date of Public Hearing on Question of Annexation Pursuant to NCGS 160A-31 be
adopted with a recommended hearing date of May 16, 2022. Commissioner Tanner
motioned that the Board of Commissioners 1) accept the petition for voluntary
annexation as requested by New Covenant Fellowship Church, 2) accept the Town
Clerk’s Certificate of Sufficiency, 3) adopt Resolution 22-09 calling for a
public hearing on May 16, 2022 and 4) place this item on the May 16, 2022
agenda for Board action under Public Hearings. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded
this motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
   c.   Date Selection for a Preliminary Budget Meeting.
Mr. Robinson explained that a preliminary budget review meeting is recommended
to be scheduled for some time in mid-May. Commissioner Tanner motioned to set
the date of the preliminary budget review meeting for May 18, 2022, at 6:30
p.m. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0.
   d.   Presentation of a Concept Development to be Known as Carthage Landing
by Mark Lyczkowki.
Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, opened the introduction of the Carthage Landing project
with a brief overview of the proposed development. Mr. Lyczkowski is interested
in purchasing multiple parcels located off Green Acres Roa, Hwy. 15-501 and
Priest Hill Road. Mr. Lyczkowski is proposing a planned unit development
consisting of approximately 382 single family homes situated on 6,000 square
foot lots and a total of 8.5 acres to be designated for commercial development.
Mr. Lyczkowski is seeking board input only so that he may gauge if this level
of development is desired in Carthage before he proceeds with the expense of
securing the property and designing a preliminary plat.
Mark Lyczkowski, the developer for this project, addressed the board with his
intentions for this project. Mr. Lyczkowski clarified that he is not seeking
approvals or decisions from the board at this time but instead seeks input so
as to gauge the board’s interest in this type of development in Carthage. Mr.
Lyczkowski is an active developer in Sanford, NC. His concept plan includes
land preserved for a bypass, even though the NCDOT does not currently have this
project on their funding list right now. He recently secured Ashby Village in
Sanford, NC. Mr. Lyczkowski stated that he would be willing to work with the
town to identify commercial businesses that the town wants to see at the
commercial sites – not just what he thinks should go in.
Mr. Robinson explained that the reason the bypass is shown in the concept plan
is to protect that corridor for future development to alleviate the traffic
currently driving through Carthage on a daily basis and that will most likely
increase as the town continues to grow. Mr. Robinson explained that it is vital
for Moore County to develop industrial but not so important to a municipality’s
tax base. He also believes it is difficult to preserve land for industrial use
as most landowners prefer to sell off for residential or commercial uses. He
further stated that small jurisdictions like Carthage would need Moore County
to step in and assist the town with development of industrial land in the town.
Mr. Robinson has asked Moore County Manager, Wayne Vest, to assist with
industrial development, but there are currently no plans to develop industrial
in Carthage at this time. Mr. Robinson recommends that the board visit similar
developments to the proposed Carthage Landing so as to have a better
understanding of these proposals, appearance standards and conditions needed to
ensure quality development. Mr. Lyczkowski explained that towns who wish to see
concrete sidewalks, walking trails, open space and other amenities within a
subdivision often have to consider reducing the density to allow a developer to
make enough revenue so that these amenities can be installed.
Commissioner Bonillo noted that this development would be located at the edge
of the identified industrial area and that industrial could grow north if
needed. Mr. Bonillo feels it wise to consider this development, Commissioner
Sadovnikov agreed with Mr. Bonillo’s statement and added that he feels it is
line with the growth that the town is interested in seeing.
Mayor Chalflinch called for a brief recess at 7:54 p.m. The meeting was called
back into order at 7:57 p.m.
   e.   Surety Agreement for Carriage Hill Subdivision.
Mrs. Liles explained the purpose of a surety agreement and the calculation
error listed in the agreement since the board received their agenda packet.
Colin Webster, developer and owner of Ascot Group, is offering a surety in the
amount of $1,303,272.61 in cash. With no other changes to the agreement,
Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve the proposed Agreement to Provide Cash
Performance Guarantee for the Completion of Carriage Hill Subdivision as
presented and with the staff recommended changes to the total amount to be
secured. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes; motion carries 5-
0.
   f.   Annexation Agreement with Neighboring Jurisdictions.
Mrs. Liles explained with continued growth expected for Carthage, town staff
will be seeking discussions with neighboring jurisdictions in regard to
annexation agreements. No motion is needed at this time.
   g.   Riley's Reach Public Hearing.
Mrs. Yopp explained that, at the request of developer David Chapman, the
proposed rezoning of a parcel of land to be known as Riley’s Reach, across from
the Fred Smith Company and north of Bojangles has been continued while the
board worked through the matter of industrial zoned sites and residential
pressure in these sites. As such, Mr. Chapman is requesting that the board
continue his hearing to the next regular meeting. Commissioner Bonillo motioned
to continue the public hearing for the rezoning of parcel 20000013701, to be
known as Riley’s Reach, for Monday, May 16 th , the next scheduled meeting of
the Board of Commissioners. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carries 5-0.
11.   CLOSED SESSION
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to recess the regular meeting and enter into a
closed session to discuss the development of the Tyson & Jones Buggy Building
as allowed by G.S. 143-318.11(a)(4). Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0. Regular meeting was recessed at 8:05 p.m.
The regular meeting was called to order at 8:45 p.m. The purpose of the closed
session was to discuss the two proposals received to enter into a development
agreement with the Town of Carthage for the rehabilitation and economic
development of the Tyson & Jones Buggy Building at 106 Ray Street. The Board of
Commissioners voted 5-0 to move forward with the Southern Pines Brewing
Company’s proposal to develop the building into a brewery/distillery and
restaurant.
12.   ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the regular meeting. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 5-0. The regular
meeting was adjourned at 8:49 p.m.
MAY 16, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
MAY 16, 2022
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald
and Commissioners Brent Tanner, Dan Bonillo and Al Barber. Commissioner Anton
Sadovnikov was absent.
1.   CALL TO ORDER
– Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
2.   INVOCATION
– Commissioner Tanner gave the prayer.
3.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
– Mayor Pro Tem McDonald led the room in the pledge.
4.   APPROVAL OF AGENDA
- Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the agenda as presented with no
changes. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries
4-0.
5.   CONSENT AGENDA 
– Mayor Pro Tem McDonald motioned to approve the consent agenda as follows.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   a.   Minutes of the Regular Meeting held April 18, 2022.
6.   PUBLIC COMMENT SESSION 
– Citizens spoke on a variety of concerns.
7.   REPORTS
   a.   Manager’s Report. Town Manager, Tom Robinson, presented the monthly
manager’s report to the Board of Commissioners. Topics reported on were budget
preparation, sewer system expansion, consideration for the increase in system
development fees due to the increasing prices of materials and the distance
from Carthage to Pinebluff, where the sewer treatment facility is located, the
search for a new town manager, developments occurring in Carthage, and progress
on the rehabilitation of the Tyson & Jones Buggy Building. Mr. Robinson stated
that he would like for LKC Engineering to begin the process of identiying if an
increase in system development fees charged by the Town is needed. The Board
unanimously agreed that Mr. Robinson may proceed with this investigation.
8.   OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Allowance of Residential Development in Industrially Zoned/Marked Areas
with Guest Speakers Natalie Hawkins (Partners in Progress) and Jamie Newell
(NAI Ready).
   Town Planner, Kathy Liles, opened the discussion regarding the future of
industrial zoning in the Town of Carthage. This topic has become a point of
interest since town staff have begun receiving requests to build residential
subdivisions in areas that have been marked or planned for industrial uses.
Mrs. Liles explained the difference between light and heavy industrial. She
listed the resources that an area must have in order to attract industrial –
many of which Carthage does not have. Mrs. Liles concluded her opening
presentation by explaining to the Board that the town is already seeing
pressure to approve residential development in commercial and business
districts.
   Mr. Robinson was asked by the Board to make a statement on his thoughts with
regard to this matter. Mr. Robinson agreed that Carthage does have some areas
where light industrial could be developed. Mr. Robinson also explained that if
the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners were to approve development
requires rezoning and does not follow the land use plan determination for that
parcel (I.e., residential neighborhoods in industrially zoned areas) both
boards will need to be clear and concise as to the reasons why they are making
that approval as it relates to land use plan as part of their land use plan
consistency statements adopted during each rezoning process. Town attorney
Brady Herman spoke with the Board on the matter of adopting these consistency
statements and their legal effects. Citizen Kevin Lewis raised his hand, and
the Board gave the floor to Mr. Lewis. Mr. Lewis recommended that the town
consider attracting film or television industry uses as a way to use some of
the abandoned strip malls in the area.
   The Board deliberated on the matter of industrial zones. Commissioner
Bonillo believes that allowing residential uses in commercial zones could be a
detriment to the future of growth in Carthage once commercial begins to come to
the town as a result of the residential development already occurring in areas
that are well suited for residential uses. Commissioner Tanner agreed with
Commissioner Bonillo on this. Mr. Robinson explained that the Board should also
consider that Carthage is part of a county that the state recognizes as being
wealthy (a Tier 3 county) and, as a result, Carthage often does not qualify for
helpful economic development grants. The Board heard from citizens and their
thoughts on the matter of allowing rezonings in industrial areas for
residential uses. Commissioner Bonillo recommends that the Planning Board be
tasked with considering some other areas of Town where commercial development
may go as part of this decision-making process. Commissioner Bonillo motioned
that the Board table the discussion of residential growth in industrial areas
until the Planning Board can review the matter as prescribed above and provide
potential options for commercial/light industrial. Commissioner Tanner seconded
the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
9.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
– Commissioner Bonillo motioned to open the public hearing portion of the
meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   a.   Straight Rezoning Request of Parcel #20000013701 as Requested by
Developer David Chapman for the Purpose of Developing a 31-lot, Single Family,
Detached Residential Subdivision to be Known as Riley’s Reach
   Mayor Chalflinch opened the public hearing at 7:40 p.m. Mrs. Liles explained
the request and that it is affected by the matter of residential development in
industrial zones. Shane Sanders, representative for Mr. Chapman, spoke on the
project and recommended that his party is amenable to a continuation of the
project so that the Board may come to a decision on the matter of residential
development in industrial zones. Commissioner Tanner motioned to continue this
public hearing to the next regular meeting in June. Commissioner Bonillo
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   b.   Voluntary Annexation of Parcel #20030311 Located at 1305 Hulsey Road as
Requested by New Covenant Fellowship Church of Carthage.
   Mrs. Liles opened the matter on the annexation of this property. An
ordinance was presented for the Board's consideration. With no public comments
and no further deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the
ordinance for annexation as written. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion.
All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   c.   Adoption of the New Land Use Plan.
   With the matter of residential development in industrial zones, Commissioner
Bonillo motioned to continue the public hearing to the next regular meeting in
June. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
With no other business, Commissioner Bonillo motioned to close the public
hearing session. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 4-0. Mayor Chalflinch closed the
10.   NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Preliminary Plat Approval of a 37-lot, Single-Family, Detached
Residential Subdivision to be Known as Riddle Ridge as Requested by David
Chapman. Parcel #00005621 Located on Niagara-Carthage Road.
   Mrs. Liles opened the discussion with an introduction to the parcel and the
request to develop a 37-lot residential subdivision to be served by septic
tanks and Town provided water. Mrs. Liles explained that this plat is a “use by
right” request and meets all of the Unified Development Ordinance’s (UDO)
design criteria and so the Board cannot place any conditions on the approval of
this plat. Shane Sanders, representative for Mr. Chapman, described the open
spaces and how they will be further studied to determine where the wet areas
are and what will be usable and what will not be usable. The developer aims to
build a low-density, low-impact residential development.
   Mr. Donovan, adjoining property owner to the east, signed up to speak to
this project and the Board gave him the floor to speak. Mr. Donovan expressed
his concerns with the community college adjoining this parcel to the west and
their activities, and the possible flooding onto the Donovan’s property from
roads inside this new development. Mr. Donovan invited Board members to tour
his property to see how much water there is coming from this parcel already,
that there are trees marked that are on their property, and that they have
found that the surveyors and others are entering onto the Donovan’s land to
access the Riddle property.
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald asked Mr. Sanders to explain to the Board how they
intend to address the flooding and wetlands already occurring there. Mr.
Sanders stated that a survey is currently being conducted and that it should be
completed soon, this may explain why the trees on the Donovan’s property are
marked. Mr. Sanders expressed that he and the developer are willing to look at
the Donovan’s property to see what water drainage issues are occurring and if
the developer can assist in any way. Mr. Donovan explained that they have
reached out to the developer as suggested by the Planning Board and have not
received any calls back. Mr. Sanders explained that they would prefer to have
the Board make a decision before they speak with the Donovans regarding the
water issues occurring on their property.
   The Board discussed more details of the project as it pertains to water shed
and control within the development and any that may affect neighboring
properties. Mr. Sanders explained that they will survey and inspect the
Donovan’s driveway as grading begins to ensure that their property is not
taking on watershed as a result of this project. It was discussed that if
Sandhills Community College develops their emergency training and construction
trades educational services any further they will need to seek approval from
the Board and provide for landscape buffers to the residential homes in the
area as required by the Carthage Unified Development Ordinance.
   Mr. Donovan further explained that the Riddles, current landowners of the
parcel in question, informed him directly that the marked trees were not done
by the surveyor but by a timbering company hired by the Riddles. The Donovans
reiterated that they do not want trees removed from their land. It was
discussed that this project will take approximately one year before
construction can be begin due to a delay in county environmental permitting for
septic tanks. Other factors will come into play that will affect the length of
time before construction can begin. The developer would prefer to set up an HOA
and dedicate the roads to the Town. If accepted, the Town will maintain the
roads in this subdivision. Mr. Sanders stated that he will speak with Mr.
Chapman about communicating with the Donovans on their concerns.
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald motioned to approve the preliminary plat as
presented. Commissioner Bonillo added to the motion that drainage within Riddle
Ridge be designed to town standards. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion
with the addition. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   b.   Call for Public Hearing - Conditional Zoning of Parcel #00000989
Located on S. McNeill Street from R-20-CZ to R-10-CZ for the Purpose of
Developing a 76-lot, Single-Family, Detached Residential Subdivision to be
Known as Tyson’s Trail.
   Mrs. Liles opened this request with an explanation of the request. She
further explained that this project was previously approved for 46 lots with
town sewer to serve those lots. Developer Richard Larson is coming back to the
Board to increase the number of lots but it is important to note that there is
no sewer capacity for these additional lots – only the 46 previously approved
lots. Mr. Robinson is concerned whether or not this application is considered a
new application, which could lead to the loss of the previously approved sewer
allocation for the original 46 lots or if it is considered an amendment to his
original approval. Town Attorney Brady Herman stated that their firm feels that
if Mr. Larson were to submit a new zoning request and increase the number of
lots it would void the original allocation. Mrs. Liles explained that Mr.
Larson stated to town staff that he would be willing to just build the 46 lots
and wait for sewer capacity to be available before building the remaining lots.
Mayor Pro Tem McDonald recommends that staff further clarify this point with
Mr. Larson to ensure all parties understand. Commissioner Bonillo motioned for
a public hearing to be held at the next regular meeting. Commissioner Barber
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   c.   Call for Public Hearing – Conditional Zoning of Parcel #20010055
Located at 500 Buggy Drive from R-10 to R-10-CZ for the Purpose of Developing a
94-lot, Single Family, Detached Residential Subdivision.
   Jason East of Landcore, LLC is requesting 94-lots with less than 10,000
square feet per lot. Town Planner Kathy Liles stated that she does not feel the
concept drawing presented with the application is sufficient to complete the
conditional zoning application due to its lack of detail. Town staff have asked
that the developer provide more detail either in the concept plan drawing or
through a written narrative that the Town Clerk may submit to the Board for
their consideration. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to deny the request for a
public hearing on this matter until a complete application is submitted to town
staff. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   d.   Call for Public Hearing to Consider Proposed Updates to the Carthage
Unified Development Ordinance
   The Board was given a document outlining all of the changes town staff are
recommending for the UDO. They consisted of changes to sections 110.57, 100.58
and 100.65. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to call for a public hearing at the
next regular meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 4-0.
   e.   Call for Two Separate Special Meetings for the Purpose of Interviewing
and Selecting a Candidate for the Position of Town Manager
   Town Manager Tom Robinson recommended that the Board table this item until
after the closed session. The Board unanimously agreed to table this item.
   Upon returning from closed session, Commissioner Tanner motioned to call for
two special meetings for the purpose of interviewing candidates for the
position of Town Manager. Four candidates will be interviewed at a special
meeting on June 6th at 6:10 p.m. and three candidates will be interviewed at a
special meeting on June 10th at 10am. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion.
All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   f.   Creation of an Account for Holding Surety Bonds
   Finance Officer Kesha Matthews presented the Board with three proposed
ordinances that, if adopted would establish three new accounts for the purposes
of 1) holding $600,000 for the rehabilitation of the Buggy Factory building, 2)
holding $300,000 for capital improvements to renovate and put a new roof on the
Town Hall building as well as install a sidewalk in the Needmore community; and
3) holding $50,000 for the Wayfinding Signage Project. Mrs. Matthews explained
the accounting reasons behind these requests. With no further questions,
Commissioner Tanner motioned that the Town of Carthage establish these three
grant project account to manage the State Capital and Infrastructure Funds
Directed Grants as described above. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion.
All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
11.   CLOSED SESSION 
- Commissioner Bonillo motioned to recess the regular meeting and enter into
closed session as allowed pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11(a)(3) and 143-318.11(a)
(6). Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. Mayor Chalflinch recessed the
regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. Closed session was called to order at 9:10 p.m.
12.   ADJOURNMENT
– Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the regular meeting. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0. Mayor Chalflinch
adjourned the meeting at 10:55 p.m.
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CLOSED SESSION
MAY 16, 2022
Mayor Chalflinch called the closed session meeting to order at 9:10 p.m. Those
present were Mayor Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem McDonald, Commissioners Tanner,
Bonillo, and Barber. Also present were Town Attorney Brady Herman, Town Manager
Tom Robinson, Town Clerk Emily Yopp and Guest Lee Worsley.
1.   NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Town Manager Candidate Search
   Lee Worsley, Triangle J Council of Governments (TJCOG), addressed the board
regarding the candidate search to fill the Town Manager position. A list of
candidates was distributed to the Board for their review and all applicant
resumes were sent ahead of time to the Board for review as well. Mr. Worsley
has conducted thorough reviews of all candidates' backgrounds to include
internet searches that revealed concerning information about some candidates
which Mr. Worsley shared with the Board. The Board deliberated on the
candidates that they are interested in interviewing. The Board asked for Mr.
Robinson’s input on the top ten candidates that the TJCOG scored as being the
best of all of the applicants. The Board chose seven candidates to interview.
Four candidates will be interviewed on June 6 th at 6:10 p.m. and three
candidates on June 10 th at 10am. Mr. Worsley then exited the board room prior
to the commencement of the remaining closed session items.
   b.   Relocation of Town Owned Water Line Running Under NC Hwy. 22.
   Mr. Robinson reported that it would cost the Town $270,000 to move a water
line from under NC Hwy. 22 as required by the NCDOT for the Magnolia Hill
Apartments development. Mr. Robinson wishes to negotiate with NCDOT to allow
approximately five years to allow the Town to move the line from under road.
The Board agreed that Mr. Robinson could conduct these negotiations for extra
time.
   c.   Update on the Little River Development
   Mr. Robinson described to the Board current events with Little River and
their failure to sign the conditions that the board has approved through two
separate public hearings. Little River continues to come back to town staff and
request more assistance and concessions.
   d.   Outstanding Appeal of the Carthage Family Apartments Litigation.
   Town Attorney explained that the Brough Law Firm will be filing a motion to
dismiss this appeal.
    e.   Abatement Order for 202 W. Barrett Street
   Mr. Robinson and Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, gave new updates to the Board in
the matter of the deterioration of the home at 202 W. Barrett Street. Paul
Cornwell has spoken with Mrs. Yopp and stated that he will be purchasing all of
Mr. Watson’s holdings, to include the home at 202 W. Barrett, for the purpose
of rehabilitating the home and allowing Mr. Watson to live out his final days
there. Upon Mr. Watson’s passing, Mr. Cornwell stated that he would inherit all
of Mr. Watson’s holdings. Mr. Cornwell stated that he will be moving Mr. Watson
out of the home into a property on Summit Street while the home is
rehabilitated and that he will move Mr. Watson back into the home once it is
complete. The matter of violation of the minimum housing code and the abatement
of this violation at 202 W. Barrett Street will come before the Board again at
their June meeting. Mrs. Yopp explained that she has described to Mr. Cornwell
the Board’s requirements that a Scope of Work along with costs to complete the
work is required to be submitted to the Board at this meeting.
   f.   Personnel Salary – Police Chief Davis has submitted a letter requesting
an increase in the salary of Assistant Police Chief Heath McKenzie. This letter
is and does become a part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson feels that the
requested raise, an increase of approximately 10%, is too much for the Town at
this time and recommended a 5% increase at the most. Mr. Robinson explained
this to Chief Davis as well. The Board unanimously agreed that they are
amenable to a 5% increase for Mr. McKenzie.
2.   ADJOURNMENT 
– Commissioner Tanner motioned to adjourn the closed session and enter back
into open session. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carries 4-0.
MAY 18, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SPECIAL MEETING
MAY 18, 2022
6:30 P.M.
Board members present were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald
and Commissioners Brent Tanner, Dan Bonillo, Anton Sadovnikov and Al Barber.
1.   CALL TO ORDER 
– Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
2.   NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Preliminary Budget Session
   Town Manager, Tom Robinson, opened the meeting with a description of the
progress of the town’s budget so far. He announced that the budget was able to
be balanced without a tax increase. Mr. Robinson explained how he monitors the
budget throughout the year and the process he and Kesha Matthews (Finance
Officer) have used to balance the budget for this upcoming fiscal year.
   Mr. Robinson presented a document titled Tentative FY2022-2023 Budget
Highlight which is and does become a part of these minutes and can be viewed
upon request in the office of the Town Clerk. This document explained some of
the changes in the budget for the upcoming fiscal year. Mr. Robinson explained
the action taken by the previous Board of Commissioners to approve hiring more
employees for the fire, police and public works department as a result of not
receiving grant funding to support fire and police employee salaries. Mr.
Robinson also described the approval of a new administrative position for a
Management Analyst to assist in each department (I.e., finance, planning,
utilities, etc.). Mr. Robinson spoke on his recommendation that the Board
consider, for the future, establishing an employee evaluation program that may
or may not be tied to merit-based pay as well as evaluating salary compression
that is starting to occur within the town’s employees.
   Mr. Robinson recommends holding the ARPA funds awarded to the Town in
reserve for now since the budget can be balanced without using them or raising
taxes. Based on forecasts, Mr. Robinson predicts that in one more year the town
will see revenue increase in the fiscal year 2023-2024 of approximately
$250,000 due to increased residential development that has occurred in 2021-
2022. Mr. Robinson further explained that he has been receiving many requests
from the public for new sidewalks and street paving. Although the town is
unable to afford these projects this fiscal year without a tax increase, Mr.
Robinson did include the costs and subsequent tax increase required to do
conduct these projects if the Board wishes to vote for a tax increase this
year. In order to afford some of these additional items, a tax increase of five
cents total would be needed; four cents would be dedicated to street paving and
one cent dedicated to sidewalks.
   Mr. Robinson explained the costs associated with replacing playground
equipment at Nancy Kiser Park coming in at approximately $158,000 to $178,000
and recommended that the board consider grants to help fund some of this cost.
Mr. Robinson also explained that with increased development contributing to an
increasing population, the Board will face increased pressure on town funds to
provide a variety of public needs. The savings and increases in the town’s
water fund were described. More accurate meter readings due to the recently
completed AMI Metering Project have increased revenues about 5% to the water
fund and because the meters are cellular read the town no longer needs to pay
for additional manpower to read the meters which has saved the town
approximately $20,000.
   Mr. Robinson asked the Board to direct him in which direction they wish to
go so with the budget this year so that he can present to them a balanced
budget by June 1 st as required by state law.
   The Board deliberated on the budget as summarized. The Board felt that
working toward eliminating salary compression through an increase of one-half
percent multiplied by years of service is important and instructed the town
manager to consider this for the final budget.
3.   ADJOURNMENT
– With no other business, Mayor Pro Tem McDonald motioned to adjourn the
meeting. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
Mayor Chalflinch adjourned the meeting at 7:56 p.m.
JUNE 20, 2022
TOWN OF CARTHAGE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 20, 2022
6:30 P.M.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Dan Bonillo, Anton Sadovnikov and Al Barber. Commissioner Brent
Tanner was absent.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:29 p.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Mayor Chalflinch gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
At the request of town staff, Mayor Chalflinch recommended the following
changes to the agenda:
   ∙    Removal of agenda item 8C. Call for Public Hearing – Southbury Phase 4
Preliminary
   ∙    Addition of a discussion of development of the Tyson & Jones Buggy
Building to the scheduled closed session.
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to amend and approve the agenda with the
requested changes. Anton Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
passes 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve consent agenda items 1) approval of
meeting minutes from the Regular Meeting held May 16, 2022, and 2) approval of
meeting minutes from the Special Meeting held May 18, 2022. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes 4-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None at this time. Members of the public signed up to speak during the public
hearings later in the meeting.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Town Manager, Tom Robinson, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does
become a part of these minutes. Mr. Robinson reported on the current progress
of the Buggy Building development, amendments to the Carthage Unified
Development Ordinance, continuing residential development interest, and the
progress of the Town Manager candidate selections.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Call for Public Hearing – Conditional Zoning Request for Parcel
20070720 for the Purpose of Developing a Residential Subdivision.
   Kirby Holding Group, LLC, has submitted a Conditional Zoning Request with
Subdivision Preliminary Plat approval for the purpose of developing an 81-lot
single family detached residential subdivision with minimum lot sizes to be no
less than 10,000 square feet in size. The property can be identified on GIS by
PID/LRK #20070720 and is located just back from the corner of S. McNeill Street
and Rockingham Street and is currently owned by SKC Properties. Commissioner
Sadovnikov motioned to call for the public hearing to be held at the next
regular meeting to be held July 18 th at 6:30 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes 4-0.
   b.   Call for Public Hearing – Straight Rezoning of Parcel #00001714 (431
Union Church Rd.)
   Property owner James Duncan Monroe, residing at 431 Union Church Road,
wishes to have his property split into two tracts for the purpose of installing
a mobile home on “New Tract 1” for his granddaughter to reside in. However, the
property is currently zoned R-20 and does not allow for the installation of
mobile homes. Mr. Monroe has submitted an application requesting that “New
Tract 1” be rezoned to RA-40 to allow for the mobile home (see attached
application and survey map). Commissioner Bonillo motioned to call for a public
hearing at the next regular meeting to be held July 18 th at 6:30 p.m.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes 4-0.
    c.   Adoption of Amended Public Works Policies
   With the installation and implementation of the automatic meters throughout
the Town of Carthage, adjustments to the Town’s current Leak Cut-Off Policy and
the consideration of a new policy known as the Utility Service Theft,
Destruction and Water Meter Tampering Policy is needed.
   Town Clerk, Emily Yopp, introduced the proposed policies. Town Manager, Tom
Robinson, explained the current process by which the town adjusts for leaks in
private lines. Badger Meters, the company that installed the new AMI meters,
recommended that the Town consider new policies now that the metering system is
installed and is able to alert Town Staff when usage exceeds 10 gallons per
hour and indicates a leak. Commissioner Bonillo stated that he feels that the
policies are fair. Commissioner Bonillo motions to approve the proposed,
revised Leak Cut-off Policy and Utility Service Theft, Destruction and Water
Meter Tampering Policy as written. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion.
All ayes, motion passes 4-0.
   d.   Appointment of Volunteer to the Appearance Committee
   Carthage resident, Tam Ray, wishes to serve on the Appearance Committee and
is seeking an appointment. Her volunteer application has been submitted to the
Board as part of their agenda packet. Commissioner Sadovnikov motions to
appoint Tam Ray to the Carthage Appearance Committee for a term of three years
to expire on June 30th, 2025. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion passes 4-0.
CLOSED SESSION
Mayor Chalflinch announced to the public that the Board would now enter into
closed session pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11(a)(6). Members of the public were
asked to leave the room and informed that they would be brought back in after
the closed session was adjourned. Once the room was clear, Commissioner Bonillo
motioned to recess the regular meeting and enter into closed session. Mayor Pro
Tem McDonald seconded the motion. Motion passes 4-0. The regular session was
recessed at 6:50 p.m.
Closed session minutes are sealed and kept in the office of the Town Clerk. Any
requests to review the minutes must be submitted to the Town Clerk.
Upon adjournment of the Closed Session the room was reopened and the public
brought back in. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to enter back into open session,
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. Mayor Chalflinch called the
regular session back into order at 7:55 p.m.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Ordinance #22-04: An Ordinance Ordering the Town of Carthage Code
Enforcement Officer to Proceed to Effectuate the Purpose Of The Carthage
Minimum Housing Code And G.S. 160D-1203 at 202 W. Barrett Street
   Brandon Emory of Alliance Code Enforcement opened the discussion with a
follow-up to the initial meeting where the abatement ordinance for 202 W.
Barrett Street was first proposed. Mr. Emory’s primary concern is the
structural integrity of the house itself. Mr. Emory explained the process that
Alliance Code Enforcement has followed in an effort to abate the violation
which has been an ongoing issue since 2018. Mr. Emory explained that, since the
meeting held a in May 2022, Mr. Watson has sold the property to Paul Cornwell
and the deed was signed today, although not filed due to the Register of Deeds
being closed. Mr. Cornwell has submitted a narrative outlining his plan of
work, costs associated and estimated time to completion. Mr. Emory advised the
Board to allow Mr. Cornwell time to begin the process of rehabilitating the
house and recommends that the Board seek to establish a timeline for the
process. Mr. Cornwell has told Mr. Emory that he intends to update the Town on
the process of the rehabilitation. 
   Mr. Cornwell, who was present for the meeting, stated that Mr. Watson will
reside in the attached portion of the house where he has been residing and will
move out of the house when the major structural work begins. Mr. Cornwell
stated to the Board that he has extensive experience with historic structures.
Brandon Emory elaborated on Mr. Cornwell’s points and that the biggest concern
is to ensure that licensed individuals are being utilized to ensure safe
construction practices and to ensure the safety of Mr. Watson and the public in
general. Mr. Emory recommended to Mr. Cornwell that he speak with the County
Inspector to identify what permits will be required. The Board asked if Mr.
Cornwell could complete the repairs within five months. Mr. Cornwell agreed
that he could. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve a timeline of five
months for the completion of 202 W. Barrett Street and that an update be given
to the Board of Commissioner at their regular meeting to be held in November
2022. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes 4-0.
   b.   Industrial Uses in Carthage
   Town Planner, Kathy Liles, opened the discussion of the future of industrial
uses in Carthage. This discussion has been ongoing since an application to
develop a residential subdivision in an area identified as industrial on the
Town’s Land Use Plan was submitted. Mrs. Liles gave her report on this matter,
a copy of which each Board member also received, and feels it is more important
to fix the text of the Land Use Plan as it relates to industrial uses before
fixing the map. Mrs. Liles explained the two maps that were included in the
agenda packet. Regarding future rezonings of currently zoned industrial
properties, the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners are able to make
decisions that are inconsistent with the map as long as they are justified.
Potential decisions for not keeping industrial zoning include the lack of
necessary infrastructure to support industrial and land suitability issues due
to wetlands or topography. As these decisions are made, the map will
automatically be updated to reflect the approved use.
   Staff recommends that the Board adds additional language to the proposed
land use plan. Mrs. Liles stated that the Planning Board and Town staff, as
previously directed by the Board of Commissioners in May, were not able to
produce any alternative sites for industrial uses at this time as the process
of identifying industrial/commercial sites is a process that includes may
factors for consideration.
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned that the proposed additional language be added
to the 2040 Land Use Plan as recommended by Mrs. Liles. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to open the public hearings. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
Local resident Paul White had previously signed up to speak to the Board before
the public hearings commenced. Mayor Chalflinch invited Mr. White to speak and
share his prepared remarks on development in Carthage.
   a.   Straight Rezoning of Parcel 20000013701 for the Purpose of Developing a
Residential Subdivision to be Known as Riley’s Reach
   Mrs. Liles opened the discussion with a description of the property. It is
currently zoned TBD and the applicant, David Chapman, is requesting a straight
rezoning to R-20 to allow a residential subdivision of 31 homes with Town
provided water and septic tanks. Surrounding zones were described to give
context to the decision. Mrs. Liles’ gave a spot zoning analysis of this
property. The Planning Board has recommended approval of this project.
   The public in attendance were asked if they would like to speak on this
matter. There were no comments offered. Commissioner Bonillo stated that he
does not feel this project is consistent with either the 1999 or the proposed
2040 Land Use Plan and that its approval would reduce the Town’s few
commercially zoned areas. There was discussion on sewer capacity and the fact
that there is not currently a plan to bring sewer to this area. Town Manager,
Tom Robinson, stated that the Board may be able to get grant funding to support
the expansion of sewer in the future. This parcel is not proposed to be a part
of the phase two sewer expansion project but could be considered as part of a
later phase. Mr. Robinson and Mr. Allen Smith, Public Works Director,
recommended that research and planning be conducted to assess whether or not
sewer lines down from this area could even handle sewer capacity from this
property or surrounding properties.
   Applicant David Chapman spoke on his project and explained that there is a
need for residential homes in Moore County. This subdivision would allow about
an acre per site. Only 17 acres of the site is to be developed due to wetlands
on the property. Mr. Chapman feels the best use for the property is residential
as it would not require sewer and could be completed sooner than commercial
could be as there is, in Mr. Chapman’s opinion, currently no interest in
developing the land for commercial or industrial purposes.
   Motion 1:
   With no further deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo motions to find the
rezoning request not consistent with 1999 Land Use Plan for following reasons:
1) the property is currently zoned for commercial/industrial uses, not
residential; 2) the request goes against both the current and future land use
plans. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconds this motion. The votes were as follows:
   Commissioners Bonillo, Sadovnikov and Barber voted ‘yes’. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald voted ‘no’.
   Motion 2:
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald motions to approve the rezoning request for parcel
#20000013701 to be developed as a residential subdivision known as Riley’s
Reach. No second was given.
   Motion 3:
   Commissioner Bonillo motions to deny the rezoning request for parcel
#20000013701 to develop a residential subdivision known as Riley’s Reach.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconds the motion. Ayes –3 and Noes - 1 by Mayor Pro
Tem McDonald. The motion carries 3 –1 and the rezoning request was denied.
   b.   Conditional Zoning of Parcel 00000989, currently approved for the
Tyson’s Trail subdivision, from R-20- CZ to R-10-CZ
   Mrs. Liles opened the discussion with an explanation that Tyson’s Trail
Subdivision received conditional zoning with preliminary plat approval in 2019.
It was based on a subdivision originally approved as Pine Tree Estates which
was not constructed. The conditional zoning for 46 lots allowed for:
   1. The property to be rezoned from R-20 to R20-CZ.
   2. Reduction of lot width from 100’ to 75’.
   3. Lots were to remain 20,000 SF minimum.
   4. Infrastructure was to be installed per Pine Tree Estates approval.
   The preliminary plat was vested for a period of two years. It was extended
by Board action last year for one more year. Mr. Larson is requesting that the
Commissioners consider a major modification to the R-10-CZ to allow for an
increase in lots from 46 to 76 and a reduction in minimum lot size to 10,000 SF
based on proximity to other 10,000 square foot lots. Any approval would
consider approval of a preliminary plat in addition to the rezoning.
   A large map of the proposed project was displayed for the Board to view. The
project will have a major entrance/exit point at S. McNeill Street and
eventually connect to the Savannah Garden neighborhood if development in this
area of town continues on its current path. There will be a dedicated right
turn lane to assist in the flow of traffic out of the neighborhood. The
Planning Board recommended consistency with the 1999 Land Use Plan and approval
of the project with the condition that the developer upgrade the curbing to
concrete instead of asphalt and replace the sidewalk running to S. McNeill
Street with an enhanced landscape buffer to provide privacy and sound buffering
to adjoining property owners.
   The Board opened the floor to public comment. Attorney Andy Pettish, a land
use attorney present on behalf of neighboring property owners, was given the
floor. Mr. Pettish presented the Board with maps to give visual aid during his
statement. Mr. Pettish made the argument that R-10 zoning is not appropriate in
this area of town as compared to the area of the Savannah Garden and Southbury
neighborhoods. Mr. Pettish feels that fundamental planning principles would not
be followed if allowed as it does not provide for a transition between higher
density R-10 on Hwy. 15-501 to R-20 and RA-40 in this area of town along S.
McNeill Street. Mr. Pettish addressed the 1999 Land Use Plan’s goals and how
this project does not meet these goals in his and his client’s opinions. Mr.
Pettish presented the Board with a document showing his objections in relation
to the land use plan goals. This document is and does become a part of these
minutes. Mr. Pettish feels that the already approved 46 houses are already
accomplishing the goal of bringing in homes to encourage commercial development
in the Town. Mr. Pettish submits that this rezoning to allow additional homes
is not supported by the current land use plan goals in any way and explained
his reasoning for this to the Board. Other concerns cited included an increase
in traffic onto S. McNeill Street until the future connection through Savannah
Gardens is completed. Mr. Pettish stated that he and his clients discussed
their concerns and worked to find solutions with the applicant, Richard Larson.
Unfortunately, no real solutions were found in the short amount of time given.
Mr. Pettish argues that his clients do not feel that this request for higher
density is of such a quality design that it would be beneficial for the Town
and asked that the Board of Commissioners deny the request.
   Developer Richard Larson was given the floor to speak to his proposal and
stated that his development will not significantly impact the natural landscape
of the parcel and intends to leave trees on lots so long as they are not in the
area of the lot where the house or driveway will be placed. Mr. Larson
explained to the Board that a concrete curb would add $2,000-$3,000 more to the
price of each lot and contribute to the increased cost of the housing. Since
lot frontage will be around 75’ wide the cost for the curbing is $5,500 per lot
with a frontage of 75’. Mr. Larson feels that the only reason to use concrete
rolled curb is to direct stormwater into drainage systems and that it should
not be considered for aesthetic reasons only. Mr. Larson feels that this
subdivision fits the current Unified Development Ordinance requirements of the
Town.
   Mr. Robinson asked the Board to reference page 141 of their agenda packets,
specifically item E which references curb and gutter. The section is an
amendment up for adoption in a public hearing to be held later in this meeting.
Mr. Larson feels that recent approvals of subdivisions with 10,000 SF lots or
less has set a precedent for Carthage to continue to receive these types of
requests. Commissioner Bonillo asked if Mr. Larson would be able to build homes
on the approved 46 lots if the additional 30 were to be denied. Mr. Larson
stated that he would but they would be more expensive homes.
   With no further deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo motions that the Board
find this request inconsistent with the 1999 Land Use Plan. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-0.
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motions to deny the request to rezone the property
to allow the additional 30 homes due to its inconsistency with currently
adopted land use goals. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carries 4-0.
   c.   FY 2022-2023 Town of Carthage Budget Ordinance #22-14
    Town Manager, Tom Robinson, opened the discussion of the proposed budget
ordinance. The proposed budget is and does become a part of these minutes and
may be viewed upon request in the office of the Town Clerk. The proposed budget
has been revised to allow more funding for road paving and sidewalks as well as
hiring additional staff to alleviate overworking of current staff members.
Money received from the State is proposed to be used to expand Town Hall to
accommodate additional staff. Additional funds will be needed to purchase water
from the county to assist with increasing water supply.
   Mr. Robinson explained that Town staff are struggling to acquire public work
employees so the budget allows additional funding for contracting out the
cemetery mowing to alleviate workload for current employees. The Town is having
a good year in the water/sewer fund. Mr. Robinson had originally considered
proposing a tax increase but with the current economy and rising costs he does
not feel a tax increase is appropriate at this time.
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the revised budget as presented.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   d.   Adoption of the 2040 Carthage Land Use Plan
   Mrs. Liles recommended an amendment to the language on industrial areas in
the Land Use Plan. With no further discussion and no public comment,
Commissioner Bonillo motioned to amend the 2040 land use plan with [quoted the
language]. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-
0.
   e.   Recommended Updates to the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO)
   Kathy Liles, described the amendments to sections 100.58, 100.65 and 100.68.
Commissioner Sadovnikov motions that the UDO amendments are consistent with the
newly adopted 2040 Land Use Plan. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carried 4-0. Commissioner Barber motions to approve the amendments
as written. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passes
4-0.
Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to close the public hearings. Commissioner
Bonillo motioned to close the public hearings. Commissioner Barber seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0. Public hearings were closed.
CLOSED SESSION
Town Manager Tom Robinson requested that the Board consider entering back into
closed session to discuss new information pertaining to the Town Manager
Candidate search. Commissioner Bonillo motioned to recess the open session and
enter into the closed session. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carries 4-0.
ADJOURNMENT
With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motions to adjourn the regular
meeting. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carries 4-
0. The regular meeting was adjourned at 10:00 p.m.
JULY 28, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
July 28, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Dan Bonillo, Anton Sadovnikov and Brent Tanner. Commissioner Al
Barber was absent.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Chalflinch led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Anton Sadovnikov gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
At the request of Town staff, Mayor Chalflinch recommended the following change
(s) to the agenda:
   ∙    To add Resolution No. 22-16 to call for Public Hearing to consider an
economic development agreement between the Town of Carthage and Southern Pines
Brewing Company.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned to amend and approve the agenda with the
requested changes. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve consent agenda item approval of
meeting minutes from the regular meeting held June 20, 2022. Commissioner
Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
A representative of the Carthage Masonic Lodge signed up to speak to the Board
and public regarding the Masonic Capsule that was placed as a cornerstone when
the historic courthouse was built 100 years ago. They will host a commemorative
ceremony to open the capsule on August 20. Event is open to the public.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Interim Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is
and does become a part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp reported on the current
negotiations of the Buggy Building development, the Savannah Garden Park
preliminary development plans, the RC2 Economic Development Training program
attended by herself and Ms. Sandoval which will assist with grant submissions,
the initial planning for a fall/holiday community event and provided details
regarding funding for upgrading our water treatment facility. Mrs. Yopp had
stated in her written report that the funding was being provided by the USDA.
Mrs. Yopp corrected that statement and clarified that the funding is a State
grant using ARPA funds.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Interviews and Appointments of Volunteers to the Planning Board,
Historical Committee and Appearance Committee
   Mrs. Yopp informed the Board that the Planning Board is currently seeking
one volunteer, residing within the town limits, to fill a vacancy due to the
resignation of volunteer and Chairperson, Christopher Sweet whose term is
ending June 2025. Four volunteers applied for and three candidates (Scott
Chase, Vickie “Kaye” Badgett, and Antionette Kelly) for the open seat were
interviewed by the members of the Board. The fourth volunteer, Travis McNeill,
was unable to attend due to the change of date for the meeting. He had,
however, previously been interviewed for the last open position on the Planning
Board.
   MOTION 1
   After a brief deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to appoint
Antoniette Kelly to the Planning Board to fill the vacant term expiring June
2025. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
   Additionally, Robert Hunt expressed verbally to Mrs. Yopp that he wishes to
seek reappointment to the Planning Board. His term expired in June.  
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to re-appoint Robert Hunt to the
Planning Board for a term of 3 years. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the
motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
   The Historical Committee has three volunteers (Ruth Ludwig, Khristy Cole-not
present, and Ashley Coates) applying for vacant positions. Mrs. Yopp explained
that the ordinance allows for a 15-member board for this committee and there
are several openings currently on the Historical Committee. Terms will be for 3
years. All present candidates were interviewed by the Board.
   MOTION 3
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to appoint Ruth
Ludwig, Khristy Cole, and Ashley Coates to the Historical Committee with terms
to expire June 2025. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
passed 4-0.
   Mrs. Yopp further explained that the Appearance Committee also has several
openings, and the ordinance allows for a 15-member board for this committee as
well. Terms are for 3 years. One volunteer applicant, Ashley Coates, was
interviewed by the Board.
   MOTION 4
   Following a brief deliberation, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to appoint
Ashley Coates to the Appearance Committee for a term to expire in June 2025.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
   b.   Recommendation to Appoint Kim Gibson to Deputy Clerk
   With the upcoming appointment of the Town Clerk to the office of Town
Manager, the role of Town Clerk will need to be filled through the hiring
process as outlined in the Personnel Policy. Mrs. Yopp explained that this
process could take a few weeks up to a month to complete. There are often
documents that must be signed by the Town Manager with the Town Clerk
attesting. It is recommended that a Deputy Clerk be appointed until a new, full
time Town Clerk is found.
   Mrs. Yopp recommended Kim Gibson to this appointment as she has been
employed with the Town of Carthage in the role of Customer Service Specialist
for over two years and has worked closely with not only Mrs. Yopp, but the
previous Clerk, Dorothy Dutton. She is familiar with many of the
responsibilities of the Town Clerk and her extensive experience in Office
Administration with a previous employer makes her an exceptional candidate for
this appointment.
   MOTION
   Without further deliberation, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to
appoint Kim Gibson to the role of Deputy Clerk until the full time Town Clerk
position has been filled. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carried 4-0.
   c.   Set a Date for a Strategic Planning Work Session
   Mrs. Yopp expressed to the Board that with the transition from one Town
Manager to another it is important for the Board of Commissioners and
Administrative staff to have a planning session to discuss the future of
Carthage. These sessions will provide clarity to the Town Manager on the
Board’s vision for the Town and will guide the staff’s efforts into the future.
Also, with staff working to develop a proposal for round 2 of the Rural
Transformation Grant (opening September 1   and closing November 1) it is
important that the proposal submitted align with the intentions of the Board.
Commissioner Bonillo stated that he would be out of town through September 13
but could attend via video conference if it was available. Mrs. Yopp suggested
that he also provide a list of priorities he would like to see the Town work
towards just in case he was unable to attend so his voice and opinions could
still be heard .
   MOTION
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to hold the
Strategic Planning Work Session on Saturday, August 20 at 8:00 a.m. at the
Carthage Fire Department. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald.
All ayes. Motion passed 4-0.
   d.   Resolution #22-11: Amendment to Add Recent Pedestrian Crash Data to the
Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan
   Ms. Jamie Sandoval, Management Analyst/Planning Assistant presented data to
support the Town’s ability and need to apply for a federal grant, the SS4A
grant (Safe Streets and Roads for All) that will provide up to $5,000,000
minimum and a $30,000,000 maximum to improve roadway safety by significantly
reducing or eliminating roadway fatalities and serious injuries through safety
action plan implementation focused on all users, including pedestrians, and
bicyclists. Proposed amendments for The Bike and Pedestrian Plan were
distributed for review by the Board. Town plans should be updated about every
five years. The amendments include revised data from current years and includes
more data, such as the amount of car accidents involving bicyclist and
pedestrians and the location of these crash statistics. Ms. Sandoval explained
how the information being presented can go towards applying for more grants,
especially grants where the need for alternative forms of transportation is
being viewed as a safety concern due to unsafe road environments. Extra data
highlights safety concerns and how alternative methods of transportation could
be safer in the Town of Carthage if there are more sidewalks and bike lanes
provided for our residents and visitors.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to adopt Resolution #22-11 authorizing an
amendment to add recent pedestrian crash data as presented to the Town’s
Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo.
All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   e.   Resolution #22-14: Call for Public Hearing to Amend General Code of
Ordinances, Title IX: General Regulations, Chapter 93: Nuisance
   Mrs. Yopp reminded the Board that during a meeting a few months ago, Brandon
Emory of ACE Code Enforcement, presented a proposal to update the Nuisance
chapter of the General Code of Ordinances and the Board approved the proposal
to amend the code as requested. Mrs. Yopp requested the Board call for a Public
Hearing as required by NCGS 160D to amend the ordinance.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve Resolution #22-14 to call for
public hearing at the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners to
amend Chapter 93 of the General Code of Ordinance. The motion was seconded by
Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   f.   Proposal to Make Repairs and Replacements to the Carthage Town Hall
   A proposal for repairs to the Town Hall roof was presented to the Board by
Mrs. Yopp. The central roof will be all new material while the two sections to
the front and back of the building will receive only repairs. Assistant
Director of Public Works, Brandon Brown was available to answer questions
regarding the type, function, and lifespan of the proposed new roof materials.
   The Town received funding for this project through the State Budget
allocations and were proposed to be used for this purpose in the FY 2022-2023
Town Budget adopted at the June Board meeting.
 
Contractor:      McRae Roofing, Inc.
Total:         $228,979.00
   MOTION
   With no further deliberation, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to
approve the proposal from McRae Roofing to perform the needed repairs at the
Town Hall for a cost of $228,979.00. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion.
All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
   g.   Extension to the Agreement for Contract Operations Agreement for Water
Treatment Services
   Veolia has recently merged with Suez and shall be taking over our water
plant operations. A renewal agreement was review. Mrs. Yopp explained that our
Town Attorneys have reviewed the contract and have approved it. They did,
however, suggest that with the next renewal in five years (July 2027), there
should be a new, updated contract provided as opposed to a renewal/extension
only. Attorney Brady Herman was available to answer any questions the Board.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to accept the contract extension with
Violia as written to be valid from July 2022 through June 2027. Second motion
was made by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Zoning Overlay for 1305 Hulsey Road – New Covenant Fellowship Church
   Mrs. Yopp requested that the Board rezone the property located at 1305
Hulsey Road (Parcel #00001714) from county zoning (RA-40) to R-20 resulting
from the annexation of the property by the Town of Carthage.
   The property is currently in use as a church and school with public water
and septic. Surrounding zones were described to give context to the decision.
Mrs. Yopp gave a spot zoning analysis of this property.
   The Future Land Use Map in the 2040 Land Use Plan depicts this area in green
as Town Residential which is consistent with R-10 and R-20. Staff worked with
the applicant and the existing conditions to identify the best fit for a zoning
district and determined that R-20 would be the most consistent in selecting a
zoning district because of annexation.
   Staff recommends that the Board of Commissioners consider this request. The
Planning Board recommended approval at their meeting held July 7 th .
   MOTION 1
   After some deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the Board
find this request consistent with the 2040 Carthage Land Use Plan. Mayor Pro
Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion passed 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Without further deliberation, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion that the
Board apply an overlay zoning of R-20 to the property located at 1305 Hulsey
Road and known as New Covenant Fellowship Church. Commissioner Tanner seconded
the motion. All ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned to open the public hearings. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   a.   Ordinance No. 22-15: Straight Rezoning of 431 Union Church Road from R-
20 to RA-40
   Mrs. Yopp explained that the request is to rezone the property located at
431 Union Church Road (Parcel #00001714) from R-20 to RA-40 to accommodate the
use of manufactured homes on the property.
   Mr. Monroe owns 5.732 acres at the northwest corner of the intersection of
Priest Hill Road and Union Church Road. The property is currently zoned R-20.
The property is served by public water and septic. Mr. Monroe lives on the
property and there is currently a manufactured home and storage building. This
is an existing nonconforming use in the R-20 zoning district. Mr. Monroe wishes
to change the zoning to allow another manufactured home to be placed on the
property. To give context to the decision, surrounding zones were described in
detail through supporting documents provided by Kathy Liles, Planner (not
present) and any questions the Board had were answered by either Mrs. Yopp or
Mr. Monroe, who was present for the hearing.
   The Future Land Use Map in the 2040 Land Use Plan depicts this area as
Commercial and part of the US Hwy 15/501 commercial corridor. Residential use
is compatible under the current zoning but not with the Future Land Use
designation.
   Although staff found the request not to be completely consistent with the
adopted 2040 Land Use Plan, the request appears to be compatible with the
existing neighborhood and development patterns in the area. The Planning Board
has recommended approval of this request.
   MOTION 1
   After brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a that the Board find this
request consistent with the 2040 Carthage Land Use Plan. The motion was
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Without further deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the
Board approve this rezoning request. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion.
All ayes, the motion passed 4-0.
   b.   Conditional Zoning of Parcel 20070720 for the Purpose of Developing a
Major Subdivision to be Known as McNeill Ridge
   The Board of Commissioners called for a public hearing to be held on July 18
th for the purpose of considering a request to conditionally rezone a parcel of
land between S. McNeill, Rockingham and Pinehurst Ave. for the purpose of
developing a major subdivision of 81 single family homes on 10,000 square foot
lots. A recent change in the Board’s schedule caused the hearing to be moved to
today’s meeting.
   Mrs. Yopp explained that the Developer was asked to provide additional
information prior to going to the Planning Board meeting on July 7 th and that
information was not able to be received in time. Town staff removed the request
from the Planning Board agenda.
   Town staff request that the Board continue this hearing to their next
regular meeting. The Planning Board is expected to hear this matter at their
meeting to be held August 4 th at 6:30 p.m.
   MOTION
   Without further discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to
continue the public hearing to the Board’s next regular meeting to be held
August 15th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building. Commissioner Tanner seconded
the motion. All ayes, the motion passed 4-0.
   Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to close the public hearings. 
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to close the public hearings. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion passed 4-0.
CLOSED SESSION
   Mayor Chalflinch requested that the Board consider entering closed session
to finalize the employment contract of the Town Manager.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to recess the open session and enter the
closed session. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion
carried 4-0.
OATH OF OFFICE
   Mayor Chalflinch requested that the Board consider entering back into open
session to appoint the new Town Manager.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to recess the closed session and enter the open
session. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion carried
4-0.
   a.   Resolution No. 22-15: Appointment of a New Town Manager
   MOTION
   Without further discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to adopt
Resolution No. 22-15 to appoint Emily Yopp and the new Town Manager of the Town
of Carthage. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion
passed 4-0.
   b.   The Town Manager shall take the Oath of Office
   Oaths of office were administered by Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch to Kim Gibson,
Deputy Town Clerk and Emily Yopp, Town Manager.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the regular
meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:46 p.m.
AUGUST 15, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
August 15, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Al Barber, Anton Sadovnikov and Brent Tanner. Commissioner Dan
Bonillo was absent.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Sadovnikov led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Mayor Chalflinch gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve the agenda as written. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve consent agenda item approval of
meeting minutes from the regular meeting held July 28, 2022. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
   a.    Chairman Frank Quis and Commissioner Katherine Graham of the Moore
County Board of Commissioners addressed the Board and the public about
Foundation Forward and the Charters of Freedom documents that are being
provided for the County. A ground-breaking ceremony will be held on the
courthouse steps on August 31. Commemorative bricks will also be available
along with a time capsule. More information can be found at
www.chartersoffreedom.com.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does
become a part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp updated the Board on the Phase One
Sewer Expansion Project, the findings from a community meeting that discussed
the citizens’ priorities for the Town, the RC2 Rural Transformation Grant
Proposal which will assist with grant submissions, and the upcoming events
being planned by the Town for the community, including the Merry Christmas
Festival & Market as well as the Christmas parade being held on a Saturday this
year.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Call for public hearing for the Little River Development to revise and/
or amend conditions previously set forth between the Board of Commissioners and
the developers.
   Ms. Gibson reminded the Board that they had previously approved the
conditional zoning for the Little River development to include a medical
village, residential resort village, tennis and sports complex. Rotunda Land
has asked to call for a public hearing as required by NC General Statute,
Chapter 160D, to amend their conditional zoning to single-family and townhomes
in that section of the project.
   MOTION
   After a brief deliberation, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to call for a
public hearing to be held at the next regular meeting of the Board of
Commissioners scheduled for September 19th at 6:30 p.m. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Sadovnikov. All ayes, the motion passed 4-0.
   b.   Resolution to call for a public hearing for a major modification of
Carriage Place Subdivision
   Mrs. Yopp reminded the Board that when it approved the conditional zoning
ordinance for the Carriage Place townhomes, it was a requirement of the
ordinance that concrete, rolled curb and gutter be installed. During the phase
one build-out of Carriage Place, the paving contractor made a mistake and
asphalt wedge curb was installed instead. When discussed with the Board of
Commissioners a few months ago, the goal was to work with Mr. Chapman to cut
out the asphalt and replace it with the concrete curbing as required by the
ordinance and it was decided that the water meters would not be installed in
the development until the matter was corrected.
   Mr. Chapman met with Town staff last week and has informed us that two of
his contractors have warned against cutting out the asphalt wedge and
installing concrete as it will jeopardize the integrity of the roadway,
resulting in its early deterioration. Two statements from these contractors
were included for consideration. Additionally, Mr. Chapman would like the Board
to consider that, if the asphalt were to be allowed to stay, that Phase Two of
the project also requires concrete curbing but it would be the only portion of
the Carriage Place/Savannah Garden/Southbury neighborhoods with concrete which
Mr. Chapman believes would not look appropriate.
   Mr. Chapman is requesting a public hearing to consider a major modification
of the approved conditional zoning ordinance to allow the asphalt wedge curb to
stay and to seek to change the requirement for concrete curbing in Phase Two to
asphalt wedge to maintain continuity of design in the community. If approved,
Mr. Chapman is offering an additional $45,000 to be used toward publicly owned
amenities.
   Mr. Chapman is also offering a security deposit of $20,000 if the Board
would consider authorizing the water meters to be installed so as not to delay
the sale of the properties while we wait for a public hearing in September.
   Mrs. Yopp included additional facts for the Board’s consideration on this
matter—Mr. Chapman is paying $160,000 toward public amenities plus the donation
of land beside Savannah Garden for the purpose of a park. Mr. Chapman has
$33,000 left to pay as part of Carriage Place Phase Two build out. The roads
within Carriage Place will be private roads to be maintained by the property
owners through an HOA. Funding for future road maintenance will be provided
through HOA membership dues. The Town will be providing trash pickup service.
   Board members discussed the options presented with Mayor Pro Tem McDonald
questioning that if an error was made in the installation of the asphalt,
shouldn’t the engineering firm be held responsible for the repairs?
Commissioner Tanner agrees. Their conditional zoning required concrete, and our
current UDO does as well.
   Mayor Chalflinch voiced his opinion that if concrete is required, they
should adhere to that standard. Commissioner Sadovnikov also agreed with that
opinion.
   MOTION 1
   After considerable deliberation, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to deny
the public hearing requested by developer David Chapman for a major
modification to the conditional zoning previously approved for Carriage Place
Subdivision. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Sadovnikov. All ayes,
motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   With no further discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to deny a
security deposit of $20,000 from developer David Chapman for the Board to
consider authorizing the water meters to be installed so as not to delay the
sale of the properties while waiting for a public hearing. The motion was
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes. Motion carried 4-0.
OLD BUSINESS
None
   With the conclusion of the regular business completed, Mayor Chalflinch
called for a motion to close the regular meeting and open the Public Hearing
session.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to close the regular business portion of
the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to open the public hearings. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   a.   Buggy Building Development Project Discussion (continuation to be
requested)
   At the Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners on July 28, 2022, a
public hearing was called to be held on August 15 th for the purpose of
discussing the Buggy Building Development Project.
   The attorneys for both parties, Southern Pines Brewing/Micah Niebauer and
the Town of Carthage are still working out details for the project and Mr.
Niebauer requested the public hearing be postponed while they continue
discussions.
   Town staff request that the Board continue this hearing. Mr. Neibauer has
suggested Monday, August 22 nd or Wednesday, August 24 th (preferred).
   Mrs. Yopp presented the options under consideration by the attorneys for
both the Town and Southern Pines Brewing for the Board to consider as well. The
question put to the Board to determine which option the attorneys should be
concentrating their efforts on during the discussions.
   Option 1—Right of First Offer. Mrs. Yopp defined this as the Town of
Carthage being given the right to offer to buy back the property before any
other potential buyers within the allotted time period should Mr. Niebauer
place the property up for sale.
   Option 2—Historic Preservation Easement. Mrs. Yopp defined this as the
ability to keep the building from being demolished if it is sold within a
specified time period to another buyer.
   MOTION 1
   After brief discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to continue the
public hearing to discuss the Bubby Building Development Project to August 24th
at 6:30 p.m. in the McDonald Building. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the
motion. All ayes, the motion was carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Without further discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion that both the
Right of First Offer and the Historic Preservation Easement should be discussed
and brought forward for consideration during the Public Hearing scheduled for
August 24th. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion
was carried 4-0.
   b.   Amend General Code of Ordinances and Fee Schedule, Title IX: General
Regulations, Chapter 93: Nuisance
   During a meeting a few months ago, Brandon Emory of ACE Code Enforcement,
presented a proposal to update the Nuisance chapter of the General Code of
Ordinances and the Board approved the proposal to amend the code as requested.
Town staff have made those recommended changes to the Ordinance and the Fee
Schedule and present them to the Board for approval.
   MOTION 1
   Without further discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to adopt
the changes to the General Code of Ordinances, Title IX: General Regulations,
Chapter 93: Nuisance, and update the Fee Schedule to accurately reflect those
changes as written. A second motion was made by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes,
the motion was accepted 4-0.
   c.   Conditional Zoning of Parcel 20070720 for the Purpose of Developing a
Major Subdivision to be Known as McNeill Ridge
   Kirby Holding Group LLC (Applicant) requests conditional zoning of Parcel
#20070720 from R-20 to R-10-CZ to include a preliminary plat for 78 lots on
32.01 acres of land.
   Mr. Scott Matthews, Engineer for the Applicant opened the hearing by giving
a brief overview of the proposed project and the benefits they feel would be
brought to the Town, its citizens and the developer as well. Those benefits
include $100,000 to make improvements to benefit the residents of Town of
Carthage including McNeill Ridge residents. These improvements include
interconnecting water lines, improving active recreation, and maintenance of
road and sidewalk infrastructure.
   Mrs. Kathy Liles, Town Planner, then addressed the Board to offer
explanation of the Planning Board’s recommendations and to review the
conditions proposed for the conditional zoning request along with presenting
the relevant sections of the Land Use Plan Goals for the proposed project.
Those Land Use Plan Goals included:
   Section 1—Preserved and celebrated small-town charm, scale, and community
roots
   Section 2—Coordinated, intentional, and well-planned growth and development
   Section 3—Protection of open space and critical natural features
   Section 6—A well-connected multi-modal transportation system
   Section 7—High-quality parks and recreational facilities that are accessible
to all
   Section 8—Protected and preserved historic and cultural resources
   Section 9—Adequate supply and high quality of housing
   Section 10—Informed, engaged, and active residents that represent a variety
of neighborhoods and citizen groups
PUBLIC COMMENT
Several citizens signed up to speak on this topic. Mayor Chalflinch addressed
the public and reminded each speaker that they would be limited to three
minutes of time to make their case for or against the proposed conditional
zoning request. Commissioner Sadovnikov would be the timekeeper.
Each of eight citizens opting to address the Board voiced their opposition to
the conditional zoning request listing reasons of density, increased traffic,
stress that would be added to the already stretched infrastructure and Town
resources, aesthetics and preserving the general appearance of the area with
the existing historical homes. The developer was given the opportunity to
answer questions from the public.
Mrs. Liles addressed the Board to question if they would like her to continue
with the individual conditions that had been negotiated between the Planning
Board and the Developer, Kirby Holding Group, LLC. Commissioner Tanner stated
that he did not feel that was necessary. He stated that the public, the
residents that lived there had stated their opposition and that was very
obviously against the project.
Commissioner Tanner also stated that he had serious reservations regarding the
water and sewer availability for the proposed development in general, without
adding the additional homes. Commissioner Sadovnikov voiced his concern that
the surrounding properties were predominantly zoned R20 and consistency was a
factor.
Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to be made.
   MOTION
   With no further discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to deny the
rezoning request as the project is not in the public interest and is not
consistent with the Land Use Plan. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All
ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
With the public hearings concluded, Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to
close the public hearing.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov mad a motion to close the public hearing. Mayor Pro
Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
regular meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 4-0.
   The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:13 p.m.
AUGUST 20, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Strategic Planning Meeting
August 20, 2022
8:00 a.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Anton Sadovnikov and Brent Tanner. Commissioner Dan Bonillo was
present via video conference call.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 8:05 a.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Pro Tem McDonald led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Sadovnikov gave the pledge.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Review and discussion of Virtual Meeting/Attendance Policy for possible
adoption.
   With the lifting of the Governor’s State of Emergency for Covid-19, the need
for a Virtual Meeting/Attendance Policy has been suggested to better define
parameters for Board member attendance and participation.
   The policy, drawn up by Town attorney, Brady Herman, was presented to the
Board (Attachment A) and discussion was as follows:
      i.   Section A.1.a – Commissioner Sadovnikov voiced concern regarding the
wording of “mandates.”
      ii.   Section A.1.i – Commissioner Sadovnikov also voiced concern over
the section declaring “in-person attendance at a meeting a violation of an
order…”
      iii.   Section A.5. – Commissioner Sadovnikov mentioned that for active-
duty service members that may be serving on the Board, the average deployment
is six (6) months. He suggested that the Board consider increasing the
allowable number of virtual meetings be increased to six (6) instead of four
(4).
   Mrs. Yopp was also asked to add Article 33C, Chapter 143 verbiage to the
Resolution of Adoption for the Remote Participation Policy of Official
Meetings.
   MOTION 1
   After brief discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to strike all
verbiage from Section A.1.a after “Personal illness, disability, order of
quarantine or isolation.” The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All
ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   With no further discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to strike
all of Section A.1.i from the policy. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Tanner. All ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 3
   After a short deliberation, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to change the
remote participation limitation to six (6) times during a calendar year in
place of the suggested four (4) times in a calendar year. The motion was
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   b.   Town Manager, Department Heads, and staff present various topics and
projects for future planning and prioritization by the Board.
   Town Manager, Emily Yopp presented a brief overview of the purpose of the
meeting which is to align the Board’s goals with the staff so that priorities
are in place to move the Town in the direction the Board wishes to proceed at
this time.
   With much discussion between staff and Board members, the following points
were determined to be the direction the staff will focus on:
      1.   Improvements to Nancy Kiser Park
         a.   Replace aging equipment.
         b.   Develop park to be able to host community events (i.e. music
concerts, movies, food trucks, festivals, etc.).
      2.   Promote manufacturing of goods, to include agricultural goods, in
Carthage and supporting small and veteran owned businesses to locate in
Carthage.
         a.   Ensure planning and zoning ordinance and maps allow space and
ease of use for small manufacturing sites as well as agriculturally based
manufacturing (i.e. products made from livestock or farming in general).
         b.   Town support services for agricultural-based small businesses in
rural areas of Carthage.
         c.   Brick and mortar store front space is limited in Carthage.
Acquire space for development of large pavilion where a “market” can be
established to give small businesses a place to sell their products.
      3.   Create partnership with Moore County focused on developing Carthage
in a way that benefits both County and Town stakeholders.
         a.   Development of small businesses and support services for all.
         b.   Well-planned growth in the downtown core.
         c.   Property acquisition and development to benefit Carthage citizens
and businesses as well as visitors to Carthage using County services.
      4.   Actively work to bring a byway or truck route to primarily reduce
large truck traffic through Carthage.
         a.   Truck traffic through Town, especially the downtown core, should
be reduced to allow for increased pedestrianism and public safety.
         b.   Reduction in traffic will contribute to the preservation and
safety of historic buildings around the Courthouse Square.
         c.   Rerouting of truck traffic will alleviate congestion around the
circle leading to a more comfortable environment for citizens shopping/visiting
or using County government services.
      5.   Continued growth in the residential and commercial development
sectors but with limitations on density and infrastructure growth.
         a.   Develop the water and sewer infrastructure to accommodate growth
as needed.
         b.   Complete review of the Unified Development Ordinance to ensure
standards and regulations are in line with smart, well-planned, and well-placed
growth.
      6.   Review of all General Ordinances to ensure they are current and
supportive of the Board of Commissioner’s strategic goals.
         a.   Repeal ordinance(s) that prohibit skating/skateboarding in the
park.
         b.   Amend the Special/Temporary Event ordinance to allow more
frequent community events.
         c.   Ensure ordinance is not prohibitive of small business
development.
      The Strategic Plan has been attached to these minutes as Exhibit A.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
meeting. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, motion
carried 4-0.
   The meeting was adjourned at 12:22 p.m.
AUGUST 24, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
August 24, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Anton Sadovnikov and Brent Tanner and Al Barber. Commissioner Dan
Bonillo was present via video conference call.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Tanner led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Barber gave the pledge.
NEW BUSINESS
   A.   Set a special meeting to hear a Resolution of Violation for Carriage
Place curing.
   During the last meeting, the Board of Commissioners expressed concern with
amending the Conditional Zoning approval to allow for the use of asphalt wedge
curbing in Carriage Place Townhomes. The Board indicated no interest in
accepting a financial offset to make legal a change in the zoning, recommended
that staff look into whether or not professional liability insurance could
address the problem, and evaluate any other options. After the meeting, Mr.
Chapman was updated by the Town Manager and indicated professional liability
insurance was not an option for corrective action. He asked to meet with the
Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem, and staff to discuss this situation.
   Mr. Chapman, engineer Shane Sanders, and a representative of Roberts Asphalt
met with staff, the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem on August 22 nd . This
situation was thoroughly discussed, particularly how the replacement of the
asphalt curbing with concrete would need to be made. There was disagreement
regarding the impact of concrete installation; however, it is important to note
that the work would not be warrantied by the contractor. Therefore, this shifts
the burden onto the HOA to maintain the road and curbing in the future.
   The developer indicated the importance of discussing the issue more
thoroughly with the full board. Staff considers the installation of the asphalt
wedge curbing a violation of Conditional Zoning which is a violation of the
Development Ordinance. One option for the Board to consider is to treat this as
a violation requiring a remedy. Potential corrective action was further
discussed. The original option remains on the table to replace the asphalt
curbing with concrete. A second potential option considers the following.
      1.   The party impacted will be the homeowners.
      2.   The road is private and not to be accepted by the town.
      3.   The adopted regulations at the time this condition was put in place
allowed for asphalt curbing.
      4.   Perhaps the party affected needs to be party to resolution of this
problem.
   This option would be to place this improvement in the hands of the
homeowner’s association by incorporating funding into a dedicated street
maintenance fund that they could choose to use to 1) install concrete curbing,
or 2) reserve for future road and sidewalk improvements. This could be
incorporated into an Order for Corrective Action. The developer would still be
required to use concrete in Phase 2.
   Town staff would normally address zoning violations administratively.
However, in this case staff feels that this is an elevated issue given that it
was the first major conditional zoning approved by the town and the Board has
been very emphatic in its position on concrete curbing for small lots. Staff
asks that the Board discuss the matter with David Chapman and D.R. Horton and
determine if treating this matter as a code violation is the best means of
moving forward and if the Board thinks that dedicating funding for street
improvements is appropriate.
   Engineer Shane Sanders and a representative of DR Horton were in attendance
to plead their case for a special meeting before the Board. They discussed the
above presented options to include placing a set penalty/fine in an account
managed by the HOA with the sole purpose of repairing the current asphalt roads
when the need arises.
   The Board was hesitant to agree to the planning of a special meeting, but
agreed with the request with the stipulation that the developer bring the
following information to the Board for consideration:
      1.   Figures and estimates for cost of repairing the current roads that
are in violation of the conditional zoning along with cost of maintaining the
current roads as they stand currently once repairs are needed.
      2.   Need calculations to support the offer of $45 thousand. Is it an
appropriate amount compared to potential repair costs?
      3.   Copy of the current HOA budget so that the Board can see that there
is money in the street maintenance account and any penalty money would be “in
addition to” the funds already budgeted.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov called for a special meeting to be held on Tuesday,
September 6, 2022 at 6:30 p.m. in the McDonald Building to discuss resolution
of the violation of the Conditional Zoning for Carriage Place Townhomes.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. Motion carried 5-0.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to close the general session and go into
the Public Hearing portion of the meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded. All
ayes, motion carried 5-0.
PUBLIC HEARING
   a.   Buggy Building Development Project
   The Board of Commissioners called for a public hearing on August 15 to hear
and discuss the details of the sale of the Buggy Building to Micah Niebauer,
owner of Southern Pines Brewing Company. The hearing was postponed as attorneys
for both sides were still negotiating the details of the agreements. The bulk
of the negotiations have been worked out and the Board will hear the details
and conditions now in a public hearing.
   Ms. Yopp and Town Attorney, Brady Herman, along with Ms. Kathy Liles, Town
Planner, reviewed each document respectfully and pointed out the major points
of negotiation between the parties for the Board to disseminate and deliberate
upon.
      i.   Right of First Offer
         a)   Section 2 – The Board will be privy to the third party offer and
can counteroffer within a period of 30 days after the date on which Owner
delivers Grantee the First Offer Notice and will have the right to submit to
Owner a written good-faith offer to purchase the Property. The Board negotiated
a term of 60 days, due to the difficulty in scheduling a quorum for meetings
out of cycle. Mr. Niebauer graciously agreed.
         If the Grantee Offer is equal to or exceeds the Minimum Offer Price,
then Owner shall accept the Grantee Offer and the parties shall enter into a
Definitive Sale Agreement, closing withing 60 days from the date of the Grantee
Offer.
         The agreement constitutes a one-time right of first offer and shall
not be deemed to apply successive or repeated instances and shall not
constitute a right of first refusal or a right of purchase. The Board clarified
and confirmed with Mr. Niebauer and attorney, Brady Herman that if the property
was to be placed on the market and subsequently removed prior to selling, each
time the property is placed on the market, the Board will be given Right of
First Offer each time. (i.e. The one-time right of first offer shall only apply
when the owner transfers the property.)
         b)   Section 4 – The term of this Agreement will expire after 10
years.
         c)   Section 7 – This Agreement will not be deemed to “run with the
land” with respect to the Property and is binding only on Owner and its
Affiliate
      ii.   Economic Development Assistance Agreement
         a)   RECITALS
            1)   Section 1 – The Southern Pines Brewing Company will expend
approximately $750,000 in addition to the $600,000 of Grant funding to
rehabilitate and equip the Property by December 31, 2023.
            2)   Section 3 – Mrs. Yapp inquired if the Board agreed with this
section citing that the Project will bring economic development and a
likelihood of a stable economic environment in the Town. The Board felt that
the Project would do so.
         b)   DEFINITIONS
            1)   Section 1 – Mrs. Yopp wanted to ensure that both the Board and
Mr. Niebauer were confident that the fulfillment of the Tax Base Increase
Requirement of $657,110. Both parties were confident this would be fulfilled.
         c)   OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY
            1)   Section 3.1.1 – Mrs. Yopp inquired whether Mr. Niebauer was
comfortable with the deadline to complete the rehabilitation by December 31,
2023? She noted that an extension on funding can be requested, but no guarantee
it will be granted. Mr. Niebauer expressed concern about the tight timeline due
to procurement and permitting but assured the Board that he would be working
diligently towards that goal.
            The “definition” of complete was discussed at length and was
decided as follows: “Rehabilitation is deemed complete when a certificate of
occupancy has been issued for a rehabilitated shell building suitable for upfit
for a commercial use.”
            2)   Section 5.5 – Clarification was made that the parties should
give notice of any address change.
      iii.   Sub-Grant Agreement
         a)   RECITALS
            1)   Section A – Mrs. Yopp reiterated the purpose of the granted
$600,000 to the Town was to rehabilitate buildings of historic value and make
the building usable.
         b)   Section 1.b – Mrs. Yopp questioned the Board if they were
agreeable with the Allowable Rehabilitation Expenses (ARE) as follows: the
costs of permits, professional fees such as architects and engineer’s
consulting fees, demolition, construction, construction management, materials,
accounting reports, required by the Sub-Grant Agreement, in-state travel
required by the rehabilitation work, and other usual and customary costs of the
renovation of a property. The Board was agreeable.
         c)   Section 1.d – It was reiterated that the Town may perform
inspections to ensure that work is taking place as allowed.
         d)   Section 4 – The Company shall make commercially reasonable
efforts to satisfy the historic preservation recommendations. The Company will
provide the Town with any fixtures from the Buggy Building that will not be
used as part of the adaptive reuse project to rehabilitate the Buggy Building.
The Town can sell those items as surplus or donate them to historic
preservation associations.
         e)   Exhibit C (Use Restriction) – Mrs. Yopp and Mrs. Liles suggested
that item two (2) be removed from the list as it did not represent the desired
economic development of downtown that the Town is striving for. The Board and
Mr. Neibauer compromised and did strike the item from the list of uses.
         Staff recommended the length of time the permitted uses could be
restricted be increased to 20 years as opposed to the five (5) years Mr.
Neibauer and his attorneys suggested. The Board and Mr. Niebauer negotiated and
came to a compromise of a 10-year period of restricted use.
      iv.   Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Improved Real Property
         a)   Exhibit B, Section 3 – Southern Pines Brewing is aware of
asbestos in the Buggy Building.
         b)   Exhibit B, Section 6 – Both parties agreed to eliminate the
parking license agreement requirement.
With the conclusion of the Buggy Building Agreements complete, the mayor called
for a motion to close the public hearing.
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to close the public hearing. Commissioner
Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
ADJOURNMENT
MOTION
With no other business, Commissioner Tanner motioned to adjourn the regular
meeting. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes, motion
carried 5-0.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:58 p.m.
SEPTEMBER 6, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Special Meeting
Carriage Place Violation
September 6, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald, Commissioners Anton
Sadovnikov and Brent Tanner. Commissioner Dan Bonillo was present via video
conference call and Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch was excused.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pro Tem McDonald called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Tanner led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Sadovnikov gave the pledge.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Resolution of violation for Carriage Place roads and curbing.
   After a brief summary of the ongoing concerns by Kathy Liles, Town Planner,
Shane Sanders, of Sanders Engineering, along with representatives from DR
Horton and the development HOA presented his case before the Board.
   Mrs. Liles updated that it was a requirement of the ordinance for the
conditional zoning of Carriage Place that concrete rolled curb and gutter be
installed. During the phase one build out of Carriage Place the paving
contractor made a mistake and asphalt wedge curb was installed instead. When
discussed with the Board of Commissioners a few months ago the goal was to work
with Mr. Chapman to cut out the asphalt and replace it with the concrete
curbing as required by the ordinance and it was decided that the water meters
would not be installed in the development until the matter was corrected.
   Mr. Sanders reminded the Board that he presented statements at the last
meeting from two of his contractors warning against cutting out the asphalt
wedge and installing concrete as it will jeopardize the integrity of the
roadway resulting in its early deterioration.
   Cost analysis reports were provided by Mr. Sanders from those same
contractors for replacing the asphalt-wedge curb with concrete roll curb and
replacing like-for-like asphalt-wedge curbing for comparison. (Exhibits A & B)
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald confirmed with Mr. Sanders that the concrete was
approximately $10 per linear foot more than the asphalt (estimate given in
July) with the total cost to completely replace the curbing with concrete-roll
curbing costing $86 thousand and to replace the asphalt with asphalt would cost
$45 thousand.
   Mr. Sanders also explained that if the curbing was cut out and replaced with
the concrete curb and gutter, the one-year warranty for the road would be null
and voided.
   The roads within Carriage Place will be private roads to be maintained by
the property owners through an HOA. Funding for future road maintenance will be
provided through HOA membership dues. DR Horton HOA will maintain the budget
and monies for the HOA until the homeowners are prepared to assume the
responsibility.
   Commissioner Sadovnikov asked to clarify the following concerns he had
regarding the situation:
      1.   Any potential fines would be set aside for Phase One roads? Mr.
Sanders confirmed that it would be used for repairs needed to only Phase One
roads when needed.
      2.   Phase Two roads will be concrete-rolled curb and gutter as set forth
in the conditional zoning ordinance. Mr. Sanders confirmed that Phase Two would
indeed be the required concrete-rolled curb and gutter.
      3.   Commissioner Sadovnikov also asked for clarification that any monies
collected in fines is NOT to be used to correct any problems found during the
initial walk-through inspections. Mr. Sanders confirmed that the current work
was under warranty for one year from the contractor and any defects would be
covered by that warranty and no HOA money would be used.
   Commissioner Tanner, after reading the First Amendment to Declaration of
Covenants, Conditions, Restrictions and Easements for Carriage Place (Exhibit
C), asked that the following changes be made to the document:
      1.   DR Horton or none of their subsidiaries shall have access to any
monies levied as fines for use in any manner.
      2.   The money may only be accessed by the HOA after it has been turned
over to the homeowners for management.
      3.   All money is to be maintained in an interest-baring account until
the homeowners take over responsibility for management.
      4.   Any fines are to be paid by David Chapman directly to the managing
DR Horton HOA with proof of payment provided to the Board.
   MOTION 1
   After considerable discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a  motion that Phase
2 of Carriage Place roads shall be concrete, and that Phase 1 remain as the
asphalt that currently exists and shall be permitted with the following
conditions:
      1.   A simple fine of $45K be place on Carriage Place Townhomes imposed
by the Town of Carthage.
      2.   That $45K shall be paid to the Homeowners Association for the
Carriage Place Subdivision with the caveats being the first amendment to the
declaration of these conditions/descriptions/easements for Carriage Place shall
be adopted with these following conditions:
         a.   D.R. Horton Inc. or any subsidiary shall not utilize or otherwise
allocate or disperse the funds for its own private use and
         b.   the funds should solely be used by the Homeowners association and
the homeowners therein and
         c.   the funds be in an interest-bearing account
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes, the motion carried
4-0.
MOTION 2
With no further discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to allow the Town
Public Works staff to install the remaining water meters for Phase One of
Carriage Place. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes,
the motion carried 4-0.
ADJOURNMENT
MOTION
With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
meeting. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, motion
carried 4-0.
The meeting was adjourned at 7:22 p.m.
SEPTEMBER 19, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
September 19, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Al Barber, Anton Sadovnikov, Brent Tanner, and Commissioner Dan
Bonillo.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Chalflinch led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Sadovnikov gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the agenda as written.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve consent agenda item approval of
meeting minutes from the regular meetings held and the Budget Amendments as
follows :
      a.   Regular Meeting held August 15, 2022
      b.   Special Meeting (Strategic Planning) held August 20, 2022
      c.   Special Meeting (Buggy Building Agreements) held August 24, 2022
      d.   Special Meeting (Carriage Place Violation) held September 6, 2022
      e.   Budget Amendment #1 – Allocation for Clearing Dog Park
      f.   Budget Amendment #2 – Allocation to Pay Retired Firefighter Death
Benefit
      g.   Budget Amendment #3 – Sale of Old Water Meters
      Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
The Board recognized former Town Manager, Tom Robinson with a wooden plaque
thanking him for his dedication and many years of service to the Town of
Carthage and its citizens.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Tommy Phillips, representing the Carthage Century Committee and CERRI
Committee, announced that the Carthage Century Committee was one of 20
communities in NC to recently receive a $25,000 Hometown Revitalization Grant
from the Duke Energy Foundation to support small businesses with a storefront
in downtown Carthage. Applications will be accepted for sums of $500--$2,500
with recipients being announced by January 15.
Bert Patrick with the Carthage Garden Club informed the Board that their Club
will not be servicing the garden coming from Sanford into town on Hwy 501. She
also has requested that the decorative signs at the entrances to town be
updated when possible as they are deteriorating.
Elizabeth Riley, citizen from S. McNeill Street brough forth a concern that the
development across the street from her home has taken the homes from the bat
population and that population has now invaded her home. She has asked for
assistance and/or resources to help her better manage the issue. The Board
assured her that we would assist in whatever way is feasible and legal.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does
become a part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp announced to the Board the promotion
of Kim Gibson to the position of Town Clerk/Human Resources Officer and the
subsequent search for a replacement for the Customer Service Specialist
position she will be vacating.
   Mrs. Yopp also informed the Board that Allen Smith, Public Works Director,
has posted a Request for Qualifications for an engineering firm to assist in
designing the updates to the water treatment facility. RFQs are due by October
4 th . She also updated the Board regarding the negotiations with Moore County
to purchase 230,000 gallons of water to increase our water capacity as we
continue to grow.
   Update and explanation was giving regarding several complaints concerning
the burning of development clearing debris polluting nearby neighborhoods. Mrs.
Yopp informed the Board that she and Mr. Allen Smith had visited the site and
spoken with the foreman. Issues were discussed and solutions agreed upon. At
the time of the meeting, no further concerns had been received.
   Mrs. Yopp finished her update with a summary of a visit she and Jamie
Sandoval, Management Analyst/Planning Assistant, made to the cities of Sanford
and Raeford respectively. Grace Lawrence with the NC Department of Commerce
arranged for tours of nearby cities that also serve as the county seats for
their counties, as Carthage does. The tours centered mainly on downtown
revitalization and development. Mrs. Yopp shared several ideas for developing
and revitalization for Carthage that she would like to research more.
   She also notified the Board that Town staff will be holding a Community
Input Meeting for a proposed dog park at Robert Place in Savannah Garden on
Thursday, September 29 at 5:30 pm. Town staff will be looking to hear from the
community about what they would like to see happen with the park area.
OLD BUSINESS
   i.   Carriage Place Violation Fine and Language Approval.
   ii.   After reviewing the Carriage Place Amendment prepared by DR Horton,
the Board discussed the document at length.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the First Amendment to the
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, Restrictions and Easements for Carriage
Place with the following changes:
   a.   All monies collected in fines by the Town of Carthage for the violation
of the conditional zoning for Carriage Place will be kept in an interest-
bearing account for the Community Managed HOA and
   b.   The monies collected cannot be used by DR Horton, the HOA managed by DR
Horton, or any of its subsidiaries for any purpose or reason. All funds are to
be turned over to the Community Managed HOA for the purpose of repairing and
maintaining the roads and curbing.
   Commissioner Tanner seconded. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Applicant for Historical Committee, Karyl Chase
   A volunteer application was reviewed for the Historical Committee. The
ordinance allows for 15 members. There are four vacancies at this time and all
terms are for three years.
   MOTION
   After a brief deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to appoint
Karyl Chase to the Historical Committee with a term to expire September 2025.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, the motion passed 5-
0.
   b.   Strategic Plan Approval.
   At the Special Meeting on August 20, the Board and Town staff came up with a
Strategic Plan for the direction the Board wishes to see Carthage grow into.
That plan is attached for your approval.
   MOTION
   After a brief discourse, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to accept the
Strategic Plan with changes as follows:
      i.   Streamline the language in Goal #2 to read more fluidly.
      ii.   Change Goal #1 to “All parks” instead of only Nancy Kiser Park.
   The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, motion carried 5-
0.
   c.   Sewer Asset Inventory and Assessment Grant Application.
   LKC Engineering has asked that they be allowed to apply to the state on
behalf of the Town of Carthage help improve the I&I and better monitor inflow
into the manhole system. This grant would also allow the Town to digitize our
water and sewer mapping systems with GIS instead of using outdated paper maps.
   MOTION
   After questioning LKC representatives and a brief deliberation, Commissioner
Bonillo made a motion to adopt the Resolution allowing LKC Engineering to apply
for the Sewer Asset Inventory and Assessment Grant and if the grant and/or a
state-funded loan is approved, the Town will arrange financing for all
remaining costs of the project. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Sadovnikov. All ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   d.   Affordable Housing Grant Program Discussion
   Mrs. Liles has been in discussions with several non-profits and Town
attorneys regarding the possibility of implementing an Affordable Housing Grant
Program for the Town of Carthage.
   This is in the discussion phase only and attached you will find documents
that have been loosely drafted to give you a general idea of what the program
would entail.
   A representative of Habitat for Humanity discussed the need for this type of
program and how it would benefit the community.
   The Board questioned both Mrs. Liles and Town attorney, Brady Herman
regarding the feasibility of adopting this kind of program and sanctioned the
continue efforts to develop the program for the Town of Carthage.
   e.   Covid Policy Review/Update
   With the changes in the treatments for COVID and the lifting of the state of
emergency, we have moved away from our current Return-To-Work Policy and have
been following the CDC guidelines for returning to work. We need to officially
update that policy to reflect those current guidelines.
   The current COVID Leave Policy is inclusive of the old CDC recommended
guidelines for 14 days of quarantine.
   MOTION
   With little discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to rescind both
the current COVID Leave Policy and the COVID Return-To-Work Policy without
updates. Commission Bonillo seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
   f.   Roland Gilliam Request to Pave Road to Sewer Lagoon for Museum
   Roland Gilliam addressed the Board to request that they consider paving the
access road leading to the sewer lagoon which runs in front of the museum he is
developing.
   Mr. Gilliam stated that he had paved the road leading to the museum and its
parking lot area. He now requests that the Town pave the portion from the
entrance to the parking lot to the sewer lagoons. He estimates the cost to the
Town to be approximately $13,500.
   Mr. Gilliam was informed that for the Town to pave the road using Powell
Bill funds, it would have to be Town-owned property. Mr. Gilliam says he is
prepared to deed the property over to the Town, if necessary.
   The Board has requested Town staff look into the feasibility of this project
and Mr. Gilliam is to investigate the option of deeding the land to the Town.
   This topic is tabled until the next regular monthly meeting where more
definitive information can be provided for discussion and deliberation.
   g.   Request to Purchase Town Property
   Jason Hearn recently contacted Town Manager, Emily Yopp, to express his
interest in purchasing Town owned property along Hwy. 15-501 (Parcel ID#
10001046) directly beside the property known as Karefree Farms. Mr. Hearn would
like to know if the Board is interested in selling the entire parcel or a
portion of the parcel (specifically the land with road frontage) so that he may
develop a storage unit facility. The property is zoned Highway Commercial
District (HCD). Self-storage warehouses are not permitted inside the HCD and so
if the Board chooses to sell the property to Mr. Hearn, a straight or
conditional zoning hearing would be required (whichever process Mr. Hearn
wishes to pursue).
   MOTION
   With little discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to deny the
request by Mr. Hearn to purchase the Town owned property along Hwy. 15-501
(Parcel ID# 10001046) for the following reason(s):
      i.   The Town needs the parcel for a fire exit for the development behind
it and
      ii.   It is zoned for commercial use other than the proposed storage
units.
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion which carried unanimously with a
5-0 vote.
   a.   Discussion of Road Name for New Dowd Road Access to S McNeill Street
   A new road is being created from Dowd Street to S McNeill Street and there
has been some discussion on what we should name the road. Sheriff Ronnie Fields
addressed the Board and presented the desire by the County and the Sheriff’s
Department to name the road in honor of former Sheriff, Lane Carter who served
the citizens of Moore County for many years and passed away just a couple of
years ago.
   MOTION
   With little discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to support
naming the new road connecting Dowd Street to South McNeill Street Sheriff
Carter Way in honor of former Sheriff, Lane Carter. Commissioner Tanner
seconded. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
With the conclusion of the regular business completed, Mayor Chalflinch called
for a motion to close the regular meeting and open the Public Hearing session.
MOTION
Commissioner Barber motioned to close the regular business portion of the
meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to open the public hearings. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
   a.   Little River Conditional Zoning Request
   Request: Amend the conditional zoning for the Little River development to
alter Land Areas E (Medical Village, C (Resort Residential) and F (Tennis and
Sport Complex) to allow for the residential density originally proposed for
Area C to be built across all three land areas.
   Basis of Request: Upon evaluation of environmental conditions, Little River
has ascertained that the Medical Village, Residential Resort and Golf and
Tennis areas are impacted significantly by wetlands and floodplain. The
original plan contemplated 360 total units in Area C. Land is needed from all 3
Land Areas to meet the density proposed in Land Area C and that is the basis
for this request. Major modifications are required when the project deviates
from the original design. In addition, it is required as a part of the approved
conditional zoning that each Land Area development plan be reviewed through the
major modification process.
   Jim Huffstetler with Rotunda Land Development presented the project and
answered questions for the Board. The main discussion points were installing
one-sided street parking with all streets remaining private, the need for a
fire substation, and targeting the smaller green spaces for additional parking
as well.
   Mrs. Liles presented the conditions and land use consistency information for
the Board’s deliberations.
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the Board adopt a resolution that
the project is consistent with the adopted Land Use Plan. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion was carried 5-0.
   MOTION 2
   After lengthy discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to that the
Board of Commissioners approve the requested rezoning subject to the following
conditions: On-street parking be made available in the green spaces as part of
the construction due process. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All
ayes, the motion was carried 5-0.
   With the public hearings concluded, Mayor Chalflinch called for a motion to
close the public hearing.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov mad a motion to close the public hearing.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
regular meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 5-0.
   The regular meeting was adjourned at 9:08 p.m.
OCTOBER 17, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
October 17, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Al Barber, Brent Tanner, and Dan Bonillo. Commissioner Anton
Sadovnikov was excused.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Al Barber led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve the agenda as written. Commissioner
Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve consent agenda item approval of
meeting minutes from the regular meeting held September 19, 2022. Commissioner
Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Kim Livengood addressed the Board regarding the continued issues she has with
the Carriage Hills development adjacent to her property. The Board discussed
options to help enforce the conditions of the ordinance for the development.
Options discussed were a stop-work order, withholding water meters, and
increased site inspections from various entities, state, county, and local.
Town Manager, Emily Yopp, stated she would investigate all discussed avenues of
potential resolution.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does
become a part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp announced to the Board that the
Customer Service Specialist position has been filled by Maria Brock. Ms. Brock
is highly experienced, and we think she will fill the role admirably. She will
start on October 27, 2022.
   Mrs. Yopp explained that she and Commissioner Sadovnikov recently met with
representatives from the US Army Special Operations Command at Fort Bragg to
discuss if the Town of Carthage would be interested in participating in
Operation Sluss-Tiller, a military training exercise similar to Robin Sage but
that involves students participating in the Civil Affairs Qualification Course
(Q Course). This is a 3-week exercise for the students and is designed to
simulate a military operation involving intensive human-engagement to test
everything the students have learned during the Q Course. The instructors are
looking to engage their students with real-world problems in actual communities
to prepare them to work with towns/villages/cities during deployment
situations.
   With the Board’s approval, she would like the Town to participate in the
program by giving three (3) separate groups of students the objective of
identifying water resources for the Town and developing a plan to acquire them.
Mrs. Yopp stated that Director of Public Works, Allen Smith, and she feel that
this is an ideal scenario as it is in fact an issue that Carthage faces with
current and anticipated future growth. When you consider our terrain (Carthage
sits on top of a tall ridge) and surrounding topography featuring areas of
significant elevations and drops the scenario makes a great opportunity for the
students and the Town to work together to identify solutions. At the end of
each group’s exercise, Town “role players” will be presented with a plan to
secure water for the Town. We may even be able to schedule these presentations
during a special Board meeting to provide an even more realistic environment.
   The following is the schedule that each team will be in the area:
   (Team 1)    November 29 - December 2
   (Team 2)    December 4 – December 7
   (Team 3)    December 9 – December 12
   If there are any members of the Board who would like to participate as a
“role player” in the exercise, please let Mrs. Yopp know and she will be sure
to include you on future emails and plans.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Resolution # RES.22.20 to Apply to the North Carolina Department of
Commerce Rural Transformation Grant Fund Rural Engagement & Investment Program
for Downtown Revitalization.
   Town staff have been working diligently and meeting regularly with NC
Department of Commerce to apply for the Rural Transformation Grant Fund, Rural
Engagement & Investment Program grant in the amount of $900,000. This grant
money, if awarded, would go toward downtown revitalization and improvements.
   MOTION
   With little discussion, Commissioner Tanner made a motion to adopt the
Resolution allowing Town staff to submit a formal application to the North
Carolina Department of Commerce, Rural Transformation Grant Fund, Rural
Engagement & Investment Program in order to provide assistance to benefit
Downtown Revitalization. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All
ayes, the motion passed 4-0.
   b.   Resolution # RES.22.21 to call a public hearing to consider a
contiguous annexation petition for parcel #00005186 as submitted by Aaron and
Shelley Cooper. At the Special Meeting on August 20, the Board and Town staff
came up with a Strategic Plan for the direction the Board wishes to see
Carthage grow into. That plan is attached for your approval.
   Property owners Aaron and Shelley Cooper have petitioned the Town of
Carthage for voluntary contiguous annexation of LRK# 00005186 as shown on a
survey recorded in Plat Cabinet 18, Deed Page 672 at the Moore County Register
of Deeds. The 46.56-acre parcel is physically located between US Hwy. 15-501,
Legion Hut Road and Shady Lane Road and adjoins the current Cooper Ford
dealership.
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Bonilla made a motion to accept this petition for contiguous
annexation of parcel #00005186 as requested by Aaron and Shelley Cooper of CSBM
Holdings, LLC and that the Board of Commissioners also accept the Town Clerk’s
Certificate of Sufficiency as presented. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to adopt Resolution # RES.22.21 calling
for a public hearing to be held at the next regular meeting on November 21,
2022 to vote on allowing this contiguous annexation. Commissioner Tanner
seconded the motion and with all ayes, the motion passed 4-0.
   c.   Resolution #RES.22.22 to call a public hearing to consider two zoning
overlays of B2 and RA-40 upon the successful annexation of parcel # 00005186 as
requested by Aaron and Shelley Cooper.
   Aaron and Shelley Cooper have requested a split-zoning or zoning overlays on
the property parcel #00005186. They wish to have the zoning as B2 and RA-40.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to accept Resolution #RES.22.22 to call
for a public hearing to decide on zoning for parcel # 00005186 as presented.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, the motion carried 4-
0.
   d.   Resolution #RES.22.23 to call for a public hearing to consider the
conditional zoning of 300 McReynolds Street by Robbie and Sue Callaway for the
purpose of allowing commercial office uses on the property.
   Homeowners Robbie and Sue Callaway have asked for a Public Hearing to
consider conditional zoning of their property at 300 McReynolds Street. The
property is currently zoned Residential Historic District (RHD) and they wish
to change to RHD-CZ to allow for low-impact office uses at the property.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
the conditional zoning of 300 McReynolds Street to be held at the next regular
meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for November 21st at 6:30 p.m.
at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street, Carthage. Commission
Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion carried unanimously.
   e.   Request by New Atlantic Construction to temporarily close a section of
Saunders Street (adjacent to the New Courthouse construction site).
   New Atlantic Contracting, Inc. has asked to temporarily close the portion of
Saunders Street from S. McNeill Street to Dowd Street. This request is being
made to minimize accidents/injuries to workers and the public.
   As the project progresses, the construction traffic will increase to
potentially hundreds of tractor trailer loads of equipment and supplies being
delivered. The road is already down to one lane most of the time and drivers
are not seeing the flagmen posted.
   New Atlantic proposed to close the section for approximately one year, into
early 2024. They also propose to clean and open the road to accommodate our
festivals, events, and parades so they will continue to run smoothly with
little to no changes.
   MOTION
   After a brief deliberation, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to allow New
Atlantic Contracting, Inc. to temporarily close the portion of Saunders Street
from S. McNeill Street to Dowd Street for worker and public safety during the
final construction phase of the New Courthouse, for approximately one year,
into early 2024, with the caveat that sidewalks are to remain open to
pedestrians and for all festivals and events. Commission Barber seconded the
motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion carried unanimously.
   a.   Consideration of additional limitations of open burning within the town
limits.
   In recent weeks, the Town staff and Board of Commissioners received
complaints of excessive smoke from the open burning of land clearing debris in
the area where the residential subdivision of Southbury Phases 2, 3 and 4 is
being developed. This area lies between two streets, Bingham Street and
Pinehurst Avenue, which has a higher density of homes than in more rural areas
of Carthage. The recent burning of debris, while permitted by the NC Forest
Service, led to heavy smoke accumulation in these neighborhoods which some
citizens found to be a nuisance and possible health hazard. There were reports
of the interiors of homes smelling of smoke, residents unable to enjoy their
outdoor areas and general discomfort from inhalation of smoke created by the
burning. Town staff also noticed a heavy haze of smoke blanketing the town at
least once and could smell the smoke from various points in town on days when
burning was taking place.
   Town attorney, Brady Herman, conducted research into the authority granted
to municipalities to limit or prohibit open burning within city limits. His
emails and attached supporting documents are included in your agenda packet as
part of the item for the Board’s consideration and deliberation of this matter.
Mr. Herman was also available to answer questions.
   Staff recommend that the Board review and discuss Mr. Herman’s
recommendations and sample ordinances from other municipalities to determine if
the Board wishes to pursue additional limitations on open burning and, if so,
what penalties the Board wishes to impose should a violation of these
limitations occur.
   The Board discussed the subject at length and considered input from Fire
Chief, Brian Tyner in addition to suggestions from Mr. Herman. They want to
ensure that any penalties will be substantial enough to deter noncompliance.
   This topic is tabled until the next regular monthly meeting where more
definitive information can be provided for discussion and deliberation.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Approval of amended language for the Carriage Place Townhomes CCRs.
   The latest edits to the Carriage Place Townhomes Homeowner’s Association
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, Restrictions and Easements as it relates
to the $45,000 fine for failure to comply with the conditions of Ordinance #20-
32 was reviewed to ensure clarifying verbiage requested by the Board.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion that the Board of Commissioners approve of
this language as presented. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo.
With all ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   b.   Approval of amended goals for the Town of Carthage Strategic Plan.
   At the last regular meeting, Town staff presented the Board with a document
outlining six (6) strategic goals as identified in a special meeting held
August 20, 2022. The Board requested minor changes. Those changes were made and
brought back for approval.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve of these changes to the
strategic goals set by the Board of Commissioners. Commissioner Tanner
seconded. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   c.   Consideration of a request to pave a portion of the gravel drive
leading to the Town’s sewer lagoon for the purpose of providing paved access to
the Gilliam-McConnell Museum as requested by Roland Gilliam.
   At the last regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners, Roland Gilliam
requested the Board’s consideration in paving a portion of the gravel driveway
used to access the Town’s sewer lagoon. This gravel driveway is located on Mr.
Gilliam’s private property and runs in front of the museum currently under
development by Mr. Gilliam. As such, in order for the Town to enter into an
agreement to pave this roadway an easement will be required from Mr. Gilliam.
Mr. Gilliam stated in the last regular meeting that he has invested around
$50,000 in a concrete parking lot for the museum and believes the project will
bring additional tourism benefits to the Town.
   There are three (3) paving options and costs as described in the included
estimate from Seven Lakes Contracting & Asphalt Services. The estimates were
done for a 232’ long by 15’ wide roadway. The Town minimum required width for
roadways is 20’ feet. The Board would need to approve a road width of 15’ as it
is less than the minimum required by ordinance. If a 15’ roadway is approved,
an easement of 30’ feet in width will be sufficient. The Town minimum
requirement for easements is 45’ feet wide on an open ditch. Because the
easement proposed is less than the required minimum the Board would need to
approve of this easement size as well.
   The Board discussed Powell Bill funding, currently available funding, and
the current maintenance and repair needs around town. They reviewed the
estimates given and the requirements that would be needed to grant such a
request for Mr. Gilliam.
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald asked that new estimates be established for 20 foot
roads as in required by our UDO. Mr. Gilliam will be required to deed over the
land (45 foot with the right-of-way) to the Town in order for Powell Bill funds
to be used.
   MOTION
   After much discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the Board of
Commissioners find this request by Mr. Gilliam to benefit the public in the
following ways: increased tourism, historical significance, and access to
public property; and to approve the use of the Powell Bill funds for the
purpose of paving the proposed roadway to the museum. The motion was seconded
by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. With all ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to close the Regular Meeting.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
CLOSED SESSION
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to go into Closed Session. Commissioner
Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to go out of Closed Session. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to go back into the Regular Meeting.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION
   With no other business, Mayor Pro Tem McDonald motioned to adjourn the
regular meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 4-0.
   The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:58 p.m.
NOVEMBER 21, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
November 21, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Anton Sadovnikov, Brent Tanner, and Dan Bonillo. Commissioner Al
Barber was absent.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Pro-Tem John McDonald led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned to approve the agenda with the addition of
calling for a Public Hearing to re-zone Parcel #s 00006872, 00006871, 00006870
to accommodate for the use of the future brewer. Commissioner Sadovnikov
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve consent agenda items of Meeting
Minutes from the Regular Meeting held October 17, 2022, Closed Session Minutes
held October 17, 2022, Budget Amendment #4 – Receive and Allocate Money from
Fall Festival, and Budget Amendment #5 – Powell Bill Allocation for Paving
Lagoon Road. Mayor Pro-Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
passed 4-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Kim Livengood addressed the Board regarding the continued issues she has with
the Carriage Hills development adjacent to her property. The Board discussed
options to help enforce the conditions of the ordinance for the development.
Town Manager, Emily Yopp, discussed the measures that were being taken to help
enforce the conditions and restrictions that are in place.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does
become a part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp discussed the Rural Transformation
Grant Submittal and the breakdown of funding that would take place should the
Town be awarded a grant.
   Mrs. Yopp also laid out the plan for the Sluss-Tiller Training Exercises
that will take place beginning November 29 and culminating in a mock Board
Meeting on December 12 for the Teams to present their findings to the Board.
   She went on to inform the Board that the administrative staff identified and
initiated implementation of a new, modern payment system for utility, permit,
and building rental billing processes. Invoice Cloud is an online, software as
a service (SaaS) platform that allows customers to make payments more easily
via our website, by text or through an automated phone-in system which will
increase ease of use for users and efficiency for staff while also reducing
costs to the Town by decreasing printing/postage costs and credit card machine
rental and processing fees. The new system is scheduled to go live in March
2023.
   With the Board’s approval, Mrs. Yopp would like to request that the
administrative department be allowed to close the administrative office and
engage in a Professional Development Day once per month during the year 2023.
The increase in daily tasks coupled with backlogged organizational work as a
result of the pandemic and minimal staff capacity has shown a need for staff to
take time to develop better practices and communication strategies to increase
efficiency.
   Professional Development Days will not coincide with observed holidays or
weekends so as to reduce inconvenience to the community. While Professional
Development Days are a best practice in any organization, the frequency with
which they occur should be reevaluated at the end of 2023 and adjustments made
as needed.
TOM ROBINSON’S REVIEW OF TOWN PRIORITIES
Former Town Manager, Tom Robinson was asked by the Board to provide a review of
town priorities and make any suggestions that might be prudent for the Town to
consider. Mr. Robinson met with Emily Yopp, Allen Smith, and Kathy Liles to get
updates on various topics and activities. He provided guidance on the following
topics: roads and sidewalks, park development, planning, water and sewer,
budgeting and finance, and economic development.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Volunteer Application for Historical Committee – Suzanne Parker.
   The ordinance allows for a 15-member board for this committee. There are
three (3) openings currently on the Historical Committee. Term will be for 3
years.
   Candidate was not available for interview and no member of the Historical
Committee was present to confirm suitability for the appointment.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to table the requested appointment until
the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for December
19th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street,
Carthage. Commission Sadovnikov seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the
motion carried unanimously.
   b.   Christmas Parade Road Closure.
   The Annual Christmas Parade requires road closures, and the NC DOT requests
an ordinance to approve those road closures.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to adopt Ordinance # ORD.22.15—Declaring
a Road Closure for the Carthage Christmas Parade as written. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   c.   Christmas Parade Policy Update.
   Administration is asking the Board to review information regarding the
budgeting, rules, and policies pertaining to the Annual Christmas Parade. When
Kim Gibson took over as the coordinator for the Christmas Parade in 2021, she
found among our files a parade application that required all vehicle entrants
to pay a $15 fee unless they were a church, civic group, or non-profit
organization.
   All vehicles displaying a commercial sign was required to pay $50 for up to
2 vehicles. Any additional vehicles would be $15 each.
   Naturally, Ms. Gibson requested the fees per the application, and it was
discovered that participants had not been made to pay entry fees in the past.
With that said, we would ask the Board to review the attached facts regarding
the parade, costs, entry fees, etc. and provide staff with a direction as to
how the Board wishes to proceed this year and in future years.
      1.   Does the Board wish to charge an entry fee for parade participants?
If so, how much?
      2.   Town staff would like to cap the maximum number of participants to
100 and that all participants be registered, with line-up numbers assigned and
on display upon arrival to the staging area or entry shall be denied.
   MOTION
   After much discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to allow regular,
non-commercial entrants to participate at no charge and to limit the number of
parade participants to 100 for public safety and due to staffing limitations.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, the motion carried 4-
0.
   d.   Adopt Attorney Fee Schedule.
   The Brough Law Firm is requesting that the Board of Commissioners review the
attached Fee Schedule and vote to adopt either the Flat Fee Schedule or the
Hourly Schedule moving forward.
   The Board discussed the issue at length and decided to continue as we
currently are with and hourly, as needed basis.
   No action was taken.
   e.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.22.23) – Rezoning request
for 216 Dowd Street from R10 to CBD.
   Carolina Demo and Debris Removal, LLC, owners of 216 Dowd Street, have asked
for a Public Hearing to consider conditional zoning of said property. The
property is currently zoned R-10 and they wish to change to CBD to allow for a
thrift store at the property.
   MOTION
   After lengthy discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to summarily
dismiss the public hearing request for the re-zoning of 216 Dowd Street due to
the lack of   sidewalks, no parking available, the trailer is not in good
repair, and the location is less than ideal for the proposed thrift store with
the surrounding residential area.   Commission Tanner seconded the motion. With
a vote of 4-0, the motion carried unanimously.
   f.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.22.25) – Conditional Zoning
request for 3864 US 15/501 Hwy.
   Property owner(s) Corvette Corral, LLC of 3864 US 15-501 Hwy wish to request
a Public Hearing to consider their desire to obtain conditional zoning for the
mentioned property, which is currently zoned CBD and does not allow for their
proposed vehicle storage facilities.
   MOTION
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call for a
public hearing to consider the conditional zoning of 3864 US 15-501 Hwy to be
held at the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for
December 19th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds
Street, Carthage. Commission Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0,
the motion carried unanimously.
   g.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.22.26) – Update the General
Ordinance Code and Unified Development Ordinance to comply with the new
GS§160A-175.
   The State has made new changes to G.S. 160A-175 by SB 300 which now
prohibits certain code ordinances and almost all UDO ordinances (except those
regarding unsafe/minimum housing) to be enforced by criminal penalties. Thus,
there are a couple areas in the UDO and Town Code that need to be amended to
comply with the new G.S. 160A-175.
   MOTION
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to call for
a public hearing to consider New Changes to G. S. 160A-175   to be held at the
next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for December 19th
at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street,
Carthage. Commission Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
   h.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.22.27) – Request for
Conditional Zoning of Parcel IDs 0006872, 00006871, & 00006870 for use as a
Brewery.
   Town staff wants to sponsor a Conditional Rezoning for parcels #00006872,
#00006871, #00006870 to accommodate for the future uses of distillery/brewery.
   MOTION
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call for a
public hearing to consider the Conditional Zoning of parcels #00006872,
#00006871, #00006870   to be held at the next regular meeting of the Board of
Commissioners scheduled for December 19th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building
located at 207 McReynolds Street, Carthage. Commission Tanner seconded the
motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion carried unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Request to Adopt Ordinance # ORD.22.16 on Open Burning Within the Town
Limits and Update the Policy to reflect those changes.
   The Board reviewed and discussed attorney, Mr. Herman’s recommendations and
sample ordinances from other municipalities at the last regular meeting.
Changes and additions were made as previously discussed and the updated
ordinance is brought forward for the Board to review.
   After receiving public comment and reviewing the ordinance, it was decided
to table the request to adopt until additional changes and clarification of
exceptions were made concerning sizes of fire pits.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion that the request be TABLED until the
next regular meeting. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. With all
ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   b.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.22.26) to Update the Fee
Schedule to Include Open Burning Permit Fees and Penalties.
   If Ordinance # ORD.22.16 on Open Burning Within the Town Limits is adopted
at the next meeting, the Fee Schedule will need to be updated to reflect the
penalties and fees imposed within the ordinance.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to hold a public hearing to update the
Fee Schedule   to be held at the next regular meeting of the Board of
Commissioners scheduled for December 19th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building
located at 207 McReynolds Street, Carthage. Commission Sadovnikov seconded the
motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion carried unanimously.
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to go out of the Regular Meeting.
Mayor Pro-Tem McDonald seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to move into the Public Hearings.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   a.   Callaway Conditional Zoning Request (Ordinance # ORD.22.17), 300
McReynolds Street.
   Owners Robbie and Sue Callaway have requested to conditionally rezone 300
McReynolds Street to RHD-CZ to allow the building to be used as an office for a
single business and to make it available for small community gatherings/
meetings.
   There was much discussion and input from the community on this topic. The
overall concern was that it would open the door for all of the RHD to
potentially rezone to other uses. The public wants to maintain the residential
aspect of the historic district neighborhood.
   As the meeting continued, the discussion became rather confrontational, and
the Board decided to table the discussion until the next regular meeting.
   MOTION
   After a rather volatile discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that
the Board of Commissioners TABLE this hearing until the next regular meeting
scheduled for Monday, December 19th, 2022 at 6:30 p.m. in the McDonald Building
located at 207 McReynolds Street. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
McDonald. With all ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   b.   Cooper Conditional Zoning Request (Ordinance # ORD.22.18, Aaron and
Shelley Cooper, LRK #00005186.
   Owners Aaron and Shelley Cooper request to conditionally rezone Parcel
#00005186 to HCD-CZ. The property is vacant and currently located in Moore
County’s zoning jurisdiction and is proposed for annexation into the Town of
Carthage. The proposed used is a mixed used request with residential zoning to
be applied on the rear using RA-40 development standards and a combination of
potentially allowed commercial and flex industrial on the remainder of the
property (see the attached map and table). The purpose of this request is to
establish the uses only – not to approve any design. Design would still need to
be submitted and be fully compliant with all requirements of the Development
Ordinance.
   Attorney Brianna Smith represented Mr. and Mrs. Cooper. She gave an overview
of the request and the areas to be re-zoned and provided answers to any
questions the Board had.
   MOTION 1
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the
proposed conditional rezoning is consistent with the adopted 2040 Land Use
Plan. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. With all ayes, the motion
carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the proposed conditional zoning be
approved upon annexation approval. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
McDonald. With all ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   c.   Cooper Contiguous Annexation (Annexation Ordinance # ANX.22.03), Aaron
and Shelley Cooper, LRK #00005186.
   Property owners Aaron and Shelley Cooper have petitioned the Town of
Carthage for voluntary contiguous annexation of LRK# 00005186 as shown on a
survey recorded in Plat Cabinet 18, Deed Page 672 at the Moore County Register
of Deeds. The 46.56-acre parcel is physically located between US Hwy. 15-501,
Legion Hut Road and Shady Lane Road and adjoins the current Cooper Ford
dealership.
   Once again, attorney Brianna Smith represented Mr. and Mrs. Cooper. She gave
an overview of the request and the areas to be annexed and provided answers to
any questions the Board had.
   MOTION
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve
Annexation Ordinance ANX.22.03, as presented, for the contiguous annexation of
a 46.56 acre of land, Parcel #00005186 and Pin #857600461373, located on US 15-
501 Hwy in Carthage, as requested by Aaron and Shelley Cooper. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Sadovnikov. With all ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 1
   With the public hearings concluded, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to
close the Public Hearings. Mayor Pro-Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to move back into the Regular Session.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
   MOTION 3
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to move into Closed Session. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
CLOSED SESSION
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to go out of Closed Session. Mayor Pro Tem
McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to move back into the Regular Session.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
regular meeting. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 4-0. The regular meeting was adjourned at 10:41 p.m.
DECEMBER 19, 2022
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
December 19, 2022
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Anton Sadovnikov, Brent Tanner, Al Barber, and Dan Bonillo.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Dan Bonillo led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Al Barber gave the pledge.
SPECIAL RECOGNITIONS
The Board acknowledged Town staff members with milestone anniversaries serving
the citizens and community of Carthage.
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, 20 years; Police Records Specialist, Crystal Krieger,
15 years; Assistant Chief of Police, Captain Heath McKenzie, 10 years; Finance
Officer, Kesha Matthews, 10 years; Detective Sergeant, Jason Blackburn, 5
years; Police Officer, Cassie Brafford , 5 years.
There have been several new staff members that have joined the Town of Carthage
Family and are being presented to the Board and the citizens so that they will
be familiar with them if they come in contact with them.
Maria Brock, Customer Service Specialist/Utilities Administrator; Kamau
Fairley, Police Officer; Jennifer Hunt, Planner; Jerry McRae, Public Works
Technician; Paige Mitchell, Police Officer; Sam Shepherd, Public Works
Technician.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the agenda as written. Mayor Pro
Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve consent agenda items of Meeting
Minutes from the Regular Meeting held January 17, 2023. Commissioner Sadovnikov
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Patty Kempton addressed the Board regarding the need for consistency in
decision making. Tim Emmert expressed his concern that allowing a business in
the Historical Residential District would allow for others to do the same. He
also requested that public hearings be moved to the top of the agenda for
future meetings.
The Board asked that, in an effort to make Board Meetings more convenient and
efficient, the Clerk move the Public Hearings to the top of the agenda from
this point forward. The Clerk is also asked to modify the Public Speaking Sign-
Up Sheet to differentiate between general public comments and Public Hearings
prior to the next scheduled meeting.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does
become a part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp announced that the Department of
Commerce has awarded the Town of Carthage $350,000 in Rural Transformation
Grant funds to support the completion of a Downtown Corridor Plan to develop a
final conceptual design plan for improvements related to aesthetics, safety,
landscaping, grade improvements. The funds will also support the integration of
accessible sidewalks, and the construction of new sidewalks in Carthage’s
downtown core.
   She also stated that with a successful award of RTG funding, the Town
staff’s work to secure additional grant funding continues. Administrative staff
are currently working on two more grant applications, one a technical
assistance grant to provide additional funding for planning/design and the
other geared toward improvements at Nancy Kiser Park. In addition, Vickers
Consulting will be working with the Police and Fire Departments on developing
competitive applications for two grants, one of which is the SAFER grant. We
are looking forward to a successful year for grants in the Town of Carthage.
   Mrs. Yopp informed the Board that the Town recently closed access to two
areas of town that had been considered roads for quite some time but were not.
The first is the end of what has been known as Pinehurst Avenue Extension
running between the laundromat and Truist Bank. The “roadway” was in fact the
edge of the laundromat parking lot and was on private property. The laundromat
was recently purchased, and the new owner is planning to build an addition on
the side of the building to make room for high-capacity washers/dryers so the
closure of this portion of the “roadway” was necessary.
   A second street was also closed. Dogwood Lane is an unfinished road running
between Poplar and Maple Street off of Summit Street. The road is what is known
as a “paper road” and is shown on GIS maps but has never been improved or
paved. Delivery drivers were frequently using this road to cut between the two
streets which was leading to erosion and nuisance complaints from residents in
the area.
   Mr. Yopp notified the Board that the US Army Sluss-Tiller involvement has
concluded, and it was a pleasure for the staff to work with the soldiers on
“real world” problems. They made sure to tell us how much they enjoyed working
on the problem sets that we gave them, which were geared toward identifying
additional water resources, potential impoundment/storage options and
transportation of the water to our treatment facility. Public Works Director,
Allen Smith, and Mrs. Yopp took the students on tours of Nick’s Creek Reservoir
and the Water Treatment Plant to give the students a first-hand look at the
Town’s current resources. We also met with the teams multiple times a week to
conduct briefings and answer questions.
   The students came up with a variety of creative and well thought out
solutions and ideas for Carthage to consider, some of which staff are already
researching to determine the feasibility of the solutions to helping increase
Carthage’s water capacity.
   The Town’s participation in the exercise has clearly shown the benefits of
developing a partnership with the military community at Fort Bragg and Mrs.
Yopp has taken the liberty of extending an open invitation for the Sluss-Tiller
program to come back to Carthage for future exercises. The next iteration of
Sluss-Tiller takes place in March, and Town staff hope to work with them again.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Resolution (# RES.22.29) to Adopt a Policy on Public Comment.
   A policy governing the process by which public comments, during public
comment sessions and public hearings, will be heard by the Board of
Commissioners has been drafted for the Board’s consideration.
   The policy has been reviewed by Town Attorney Brady Herman and found to be
within the parameters of NC General Statute governing public comments at open
meetings.
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve the Resolution to Adopt the
Policy for Public Comments and Public Hearings as written. Commission
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to move the Public Hearing section to the
top of the agenda for all meetings from this point forward. Commission Barber
seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried unanimously.
   b.   Approval of Town Hall Expansion Project.
   The Town of Carthage received funding from the State in a budget session
earlier this year that was earmarked for needed repairs and improvements to the
Town Hall. Specifically, the replacement of the roof and expansion to make more
offices for increasing staff. Sample renderings of the proposed Town Hall
expansion show the creation of two additional offices, a storage closet and an
extra entrance/exit into the garage. Town staff requests the Board’s
consideration on this design so that the bidding process can begin.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the Town Hall expansion project
and authorize Town staff to proceed with seeking bids to complete the work. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Sadovnikov. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
   c.   Review of Calendar for Scheduled Closures of Town Hall for Purpose of
Conducting Professional Development Day.
   At the last Regular Meeting, Mrs. Yopp expressed her desire to implement a
Professional Development Day for the administrative staff. This day was to be
held once monthly for the year 2023 and would expressly be used to develop
better practices and communication strategies to increase efficiency.
   A calendar has been provided for the Board to review. If acceptable or once
any recommendations/ changes are completed, the calendar will be provided to
the citizens with the distribution of the January newsletter.
   It was also brought to the attention of the Board that the scheduled meeting
for January falls on the Martin Luther King holiday and the Town Hall will be
closed. The Board was asked to move the date of the January regular meeting.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Barber made a motion to approve the calendar as presented and
to move the January regular meeting to Tuesday, January 17, 2023. The meeting
will be held in the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   d.   Review of Sheetz Site Plans.
   The Board was asked to review the overall site plan for the proposed
location of Sheetz along Monroe and Glendon-Carthage Road. The Board reviewed
proposed landscaping in accordance with Unified Development Ordinance, reviewed
signage in relation to the UDO and what designed is preferred; monument or pole
signage. Other suggestions suggested from town staff to Sheetz designers were
as followed:
      1.   Is it possible to hide the UST vents? The Public Works Director
thinks they could be run up inside the supports for the canopy and vented
there. Is that possible and would the developer be willing?
         a.   Sheetz explained that this would financially be unsound. They
proposed adding additional landscaping to the planned area to aid in improving
the aesthetics of the area.
      2.   The Town will be considering an amendment to do away with pole
mounted signs. Under the current regulations, Section 100.59.12.B provides for
permanent commercial signs. A second ground sign is allowed when you have two
street frontages. You have asked for one monument and one pole sign. Would the
developer be willing to do two large monument signs? Brick veneer would be
great or other acceptable material that works with your design. Is this
feasible?
         a.   The developer would like to maintain the current plan for
signage, but will, of course, change that plan should Town ordinances change.
         b.   The Board made the observation that if the ordinance changes
after the site plan is approved, the developer would not be held to the new
standard.
No action was taken as this was a review process only.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Volunteer Application for Historical Committee – Suzanne Parker.
   The ordinance allows for a 15-member board for this committee. There are
three (3) openings currently on the Historical Committee. Term will be for 3
years. The members of the Historical Committee had interviewed, and recommended
Ms. Parker be appointed to the Committee with a term expiration of December
2025.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to appoint Ms. Parker to the Historical
Committee with a term to expire in December 2025. Commission Sadovnikov
seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried unanimously.
   b.   Adopt Ordinance # ORD.22.16 on Open Burning Within the Town Limits and
Update the Policy to reflect those changes.
   At the last meeting, the Board of Commissioners voted to table the matter of
amending the code of ordinances pertaining to open burning to allow time for
staff to make clarifying edits to the language. Edits have been made by Town
Attorney, Brady Herman, and staff asked for the Board’s consideration of the
new draft.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the revised Ordinance
#ORD.22.16 amending the Town of Carthage Code of Ordinances to add a new
Chapter 91 entitled “Open Burning”. Commission Bonillo seconded the motion.
With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried unanimously.
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to go out of the Regular Meeting.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to move into the Public Hearings.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   a.   Callaway Conditional Zoning Request (Ordinance # ORD.22.17), 300
McReynolds Street.
   Owners Robbie and Sue Callaway have requested to conditionally rezone 300
McReynolds Street to RHD-CZ to allow the building to be used as an office for a
single business and to make it available for small community gatherings/
meetings.
   As public comment was solicited during the Public Hearing held on the
regularly scheduled meeting on November 21, 2022, public comment was not heard
during this meeting. In summary, the overall concern expressed by citizens was
that it would open the door for all of the RHD to potentially rezone to other
uses. The public wants to maintain the residential aspect of the historic
district neighborhood.
   Town Staff met with the Callaways after the last regular meeting and came to
a compromise on the conditions to be presented to the Board for consideration.
The conditions were quite strict in their restrictions placed on the property.
   Commissioner Bonillo asked if the Callaways would be willing to have the
property revert back to its original HRD zoning if they were to sell it? They
were not willing to do so, as the restrictions already proposed were so strict.
   MOTION 1
   After much discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion that the
proposed conditional rezoning is consistent with the adopted 2040 Land Use
Plan. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. With all ayes, the
motion carried 5-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the proposed conditional zoning be
approved as written. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. The motion
passed unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   b.   Conditional Zoning Request (Ordinance # ORD.22.19) for 3864 US 15/501
Hwy.
   Owners of the property petitioned the Board to conditionally rezone 3864 Hwy
15/501, further described by PIN #00991945, from TBD, Thoroughfare Business
District to TBD-CZ to allow for indoor and outdoor vehicle storage for high end
cars, boats and RV’s (oversized vehicles) and associated accessory activities
such as festivals, auctions, minor maintenance of vehicles, detailing, window
tinting, periodic vehicle sales, food vendors, and brand product sales.
   There was no representative of the owner available to answer any questions
the Board had. The Board is confused as to what the owner is proposing as the
actual business. They debated the overall look of the proposed RV and vehicle
storage as well as the benefits those potential businesses could bring to the
Town.
   MOTION 1
   After much discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the proposed
conditional rezoning is not consistent with the adopted 2040 Land Use Plan
because it is not the type of current business in the TBD zone, the property
owner’s reasons given for rezoning is not sufficient, and it does not create
jobs. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. The motion carried
unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion that the proposed conditional zoning
be denied for the same reasons noted in the previous motion. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. With all ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   c.   Update the General Ordinance Code and Unified Development Ordinance
(Ordinance # ORD.22.20) to comply with the new GS § 160A-175.
   Recent changes to NCGS Chapter 160A-175 concerning the imposition of
criminal penalties have required amendments to certain areas of the General
Code of Ordinances as well as the UDO. Town Attorney, Brady Herman, has drafted
two ordinances amending these codes so that they may comply with the new
legislation.
   MOTION
   With little discussion, Commissioner Tanner a motion to approve Ordinance
#ORD.22.20 Amending the Carthage Town Code and Ordinance #ORD.22.21 Amending
the Carthage Town Code and Unified Development Ordinance to Comply with SB 300,
SL 2021-138 as they are written. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Sadovnikov. With all ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   d.   Update the Fee Schedule to Include Open Burning Permit Fees and
Penalties.
   Ordinance #ORD.22.16 Amending the Carthage Code of Ordinances Pertaining to
Open Burning was adopted, necessitating the need to update the Fee Schedule to
incorporate the new fees and penalties enacted by the Ordinance.
   MOTION
   With little discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve the
revised Fee Schedule incorporating the fees/penalties adopted with Ordinance
#ORD.22.16 Chapter 91 entitled “Open Burning” as written. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Barber. With all ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   e.   Conditional Zoning Request (Ordinance # ORD.22.21) for Parcel ID #s
00006872, 00006871, and 00006870 to allow for the proposed future use of a
distillery/brewery.
   The Town is sponsoring the request to conditionally rezone 106 & 102 S Ray
Street, further described by PIN #00006871 & #00006870, & parcel #00006872,
from CBD, Commercial Business District to CBD CZ, Commercial Business District
Conditional Zoning to allow for brewery uses of manufacturing and distribution
within the three parcels. The properties will be transferred over to Micah N. /
Southern Pines Brewing Co. for the creation of a brewery as approved by the
Board of Commissioners in early 2022.
   MOTION 1
   After little discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that I make a
motion that the proposed conditional rezoning is consistent with the adopted
2040 Land Use Plan. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. With all
ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion that the proposed conditional zoning
be approved as written. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. The
motion passed unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
 
   MOTION 1
   With the public hearings concluded, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to
close the Public Hearings. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion carried 5-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Barber made a motion to move back into the Regular Session.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
   MOTION 3
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to move into Closed Session.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
CLOSED SESSION
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to go out of Closed Session.
Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to move back into the Regular Session.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
regular meeting. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 5-0. The regular meeting was adjourned at 9:34 p.m.
2023 Meeting Minutes
JANUARY 17, 2023
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
January 17, 2023
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald and
Commissioners Anton Sadovnikov, Brent Tanner, Al Barber, and Dan Bonillo.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Dan Bonillo led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Al Barber gave the pledge.
SPECIAL RECOGNITIONS
The Board acknowledged Town staff members with milestone anniversaries serving
the citizens and community of Carthage.
Fire Chief Brian Tyner, 20 years; Police Records Specialist, Crystal Krieger,
15 years; Assistant Chief of Police, Captain Heath McKenzie, 10 years; Finance
Officer, Kesha Matthews, 10 years; Detective Sergeant, Jason Blackburn, 5
years; Police Officer, Cassie Brafford , 5 years.
There have been several new staff members that have joined the Town of Carthage
Family and are being presented to the Board and the citizens so that they will
be familiar with them if they come in contact with them.
Maria Brock, Customer Service Specialist/Utilities Administrator; Kamau
Fairley, Police Officer; Jennifer Hunt, Planner; Jerry McRae, Public Works
Technician; Paige Mitchell, Police Officer; Sam Shepherd, Public Works
Technician.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the agenda as written. Mayor Pro
Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve consent agenda items of Meeting
Minutes from the Regular Meeting held January 17, 2023. Commissioner Sadovnikov
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
The floor was opened up for public comment, and Treva Godfrey, proprietor of a
thrift store located on McReynolds Street and the owner of the building housing
said thrift store both addressed the Board of Commissioners regarding the
violation received from Alliance Code Enforcement (ACE) for the use of tractor
trailers for storage. They would like the Board to hold a public hearing to
consider amending the UDO to allow for their usage within the Commercial
Business District.
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to call for a public hearing to amend the
text of the ordinance pertaining to the use of tractor trailers for storage.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. With a vote of 5-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
MANAGER’S REPORT
Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does become a
part of these minutes. The US Army Civil Affairs Sluss-Tiller Exercise is
gearing back up for 2023 and they have asked if they could work with the Town
of Carthage again. Their students really enjoyed working on authentic problems
with local municipalities and, according to a recent survey of the students who
participated in the program, working within a real-world community was their
favorite part of the whole experience.
Mrs. Yopp has set up a meeting with Captain Brianna List on February 14 at 10:
00 a.m. to discuss possible problem sets for this year’s Sluss-Tiller exercise.
If members of the Board would like to attend the meeting, please notify Mrs.
Yopp so that any public notices necessary if a quorum is expected to be present
can be made accordingly. Mrs. Yopp also asked the Board to suggest possible
problem sets that they would like to have the Sluss-Tiller teams work on that
could bring creative solutions to some of our community’s needs. Some possible
areas of interest to consider would be addressing traffic through town,
neighborhood revitalization, affordable housing, etc.
Rumor has it that the Old Carthage Jail, located just behind the Courthouse
Square Mall building where the old water tower once stood, is haunted. The Town
was recently contacted by a paranormal investigation group, Pee Dee Region
Paranormal, after they heard the rumor that the Old Carthage Jail, located just
behind the Courthouse Square Mall building where the old water tower once
stood, is haunted. and asked if we would allow them to investigate the old jail
for any potential haunting activity. Brian Horton and his partner(s) will be in
town the nights of January 19th and 20th conducting their investigation at the
jail and filming a documentary of the investigation. The jail has been cleaned
out and power is located nearby for their equipment.
The old jail is already on Town staff’s radar as needing maintenance and
repairs to address deterioration and alleviate the blighted appearance of the
building. Once cleaned up, it would make a point of interest for visitors to
Carthage since it is a part of our town’s history. If there is evidence of
paranormal activity in the old jail, it will certainly add a certain “ambiance”
to this small but historically significant town building.
Mrs. Yopp went on to explain to the Board that on December 31 st , the sale of
the Buggy Building to Southern Pines Brewing was finalized and the Town
received a fair market value price of $108,000 for the building. The
construction phase will begin over the next year and Town staff are preparing
all of the necessary reporting forms and processes required to pass the State
allocated $600,000 on as reimbursements for work completed to rehabilitate the
building for use as a brewery/restaurant. The anticipated opening date of the
brewery will be late 2024 but, as with most 100+ year old buildings, that date
could change depending on circumstances during the construction process. During
this year’s Budget Planning Workshop, staff will discuss the allocation of the
$108,000 with the Board as part of the budget planning process for FY 2023-
2024.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Request to Extend Surety Bond for Carriage Hill 
   The surety bond for Carriage Hill is scheduled to expire on April 18, 2023,
but there is still work to be completed. In anticipation of the completion of
the work coming very close to the expiration date, we want to be proactive and
prepare an extension for the completion of work.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to extend the surety bond agreement
for Carriage Place Subdivision until April 18, 2024, as written, to ensure the
timeline for work completion can be met. Commissioner Barber seconded the
motion which passed unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   b.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.23.01) – Text Amendment to
Garage/Accessory Structure UDO Language
   Town staff have found that the language in the UDO regarding Garage/
Accessory Structure is out of date and could use some more definitive language
to clarify the allowable uses, setbacks, and locations.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
updates to Ordinance 100.56a* Special Requirements to the Table of Permitted
Uses to be held at the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners
scheduled for February 20th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at
207 McReynolds Street, Carthage. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Tanner. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
   c.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.23.02) – Update ordinance
referring to Mobile Homes.
   Within the Unified Development Ordinance, there are four statements which
are not in accordance with 160D-910, which allows local governments to regulate
the location, appearance, and dimensions of manufactured housing but prohibits
the regulation of use of mobile homes constructed within a certain year. Cities
and counties may not employ factors other than appearance, dimension, and
location in land use regulation of manufactured housing. Based on the court
case Five C’s, Inc. v. County of Pasquotank, the court invalidated an age
standard used as the basis for regulation of manufactured homes.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
updates to Mobile Homes Language in Accordance with 160D to be held at the next
regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for February 20th at 6:
30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street, Carthage.
The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes, the motion carried
5-0.
   d.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.23.03) – Amend UDO Driveway
Language.
   The prior ordinance update for 100.57 - #15 “Residential Driveways for New
Construction” that was adopted in June 2022 requires additional clarification
so as to alleviate undue hardships to property owners. The current language
does not take into consideration that lots sizes greater than “20,000 square
feet” can range anywhere from half an acre to 100 acres. As a recent example, a
potential property owner wants to build a custom home on a 26-acre tract of
land on the rural outskirts of the town limits. The house is to be set deep
within the property with a driveway length of a quarter to half a mile long.
The cost of paving this long of a driveway in asphalt creates a large financial
burden on the potential property owner and so the feasibility of building the
house is in question because of the driveway requirements.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
updates to Update Ordinance 100.57, General Dimensional Standards, #15 to be
held at the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for
February 20th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds
Street, Carthage. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Sadovnikov. All ayes,
the motion carried 5-0.
   e.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.23.04) – Alcoholic Beverage
Sales TOPU Amendment.
   Staff would like the Board to call a public hearing to consider allowing the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages in the CBD, B-2 and TBD zones. We have
received a number of zoning requests to allow ABS stores, specifically in our
downtown and commercial districts.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Barber made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
amending the UDO to allow retail sales of alcoholic beverages and that the
hearing be held at the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners
scheduled for February 20th at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at
207 McReynolds Street, Carthage. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Sadovnikov. All ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
OLD BUSINESS
   None
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
regular meeting. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 5-0. The regular meeting was adjourned at 7:07 p.m.
FEBRUARY 20, 2023
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
February 20, 2023
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald, Brent Tanner, Al Barber,
and Dan Bonillo. Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch and Commissioner Anton Sadovnikov were
both excused.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pro Tem McDonald called the meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner Brent Tanner led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Al Barber gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve the agenda as written. Commissioner
Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 3-0 (Commissioner Bonillo
had not arrived).
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve consent agenda items of Meeting
Minutes from the Regular Meeting held January 17, 2023. Commissioner Barber
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 3-0 (Commissioner Bonillo had not
arrived).
PUBLIC COMMENT
The floor was opened up for public comment, and Kim Livengood addressed the
Board regarding her continued issues with the Carriage Hills development.
Commissioner Bonillo will contact the Moore County Board of Commissioners and
see what recourse they may have in assisting with through the Planning and
Inspections Department. Emily Yopp to reach out to Wayne Vest, County Manager
for suggestions as well.
MANAGER’S REPORT
Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does become a
part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp notified the Board that this year’s Town &
State Dinner will be held in Raleigh on February 22nd beginning at 5:00 p.m.
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Commissioners Brent Tanner, and Anton Sadovnikov will
be attending this year along with Mrs. Yopp. One of the League’s flagship
events, this dinner brings together state and local officials in downtown
Raleigh, and offers an opportunity for leaders to meet, build relationships and
discuss the most important issues facing cities and towns.
As a new manager entering a new year, Mrs. Yopp is spending time engaging Town
staff to ensure that they have the right resources and information to be
successful, feel validated in sharing their opinions, understand the Town’s
goals and expectations and feel supported by managers and leaders. As a first
step, all Town staff have been asked to participate in listening sessions so
that the organization can understand how the workforce is doing, which
strategies and programs are working well and what actions need to be taken to
drive success in meeting the Board of Commissioners, and ultimately the
community’s, goals.
Town Clerk and Human Resources Director, Kim Gibson, is conducting 1-hour
listening sessions with staff by appointment. Staff are asked to speak freely
of any concerns or problems they have, any solutions they would recommend and
what they feel works well currently; their statements and recommendations are
noted for review once the sessions are complete. Statements will remain
anonymous and only Kim is present during an employee session to ensure that we
receive accurate and honest information that can be used to make impactful
changes, ensure employee satisfaction and retention, and provide the community
with the highest level of service and commitment.
Earlier in the year, the Town received $50,000 from the State for the purpose
of supporting wayfinding signage purchase and installation. Moore County had
also agreed to support the Town in this effort by providing a 100% match to
whatever funds we would allot for this project so that signage could help
direct people to the various County offices around town. County Manager, Wayne
Vest, was contacted recently by Mrs. Yopp regarding this funding match after
receiving the $50,000 from the State and together it was agreed that, with the
courthouse construction ongoing and uncertainty surrounding where County
offices will eventually end up being located, it would be a good idea for
Carthage to go ahead and spend the $50,000 (which expires in June of this year)
on Town-specific signage and address the County’s facilities in a future phase
of wayfinding signage after construction is complete.
Signage designer, Buzz Bizzell, has designed a wonderful public parking sign
with a 4-sided metal kiosk that would allow printed magnetic maps,
announcements, etc. and features a unique 3D, weathervane style, “horse and
buggy” to honor our Town’s history. There will be two signs, one at the Town’s
parking lot at the McDonald Building and potentially one at the County’s new
parking lot.
Because these two signs will not use the full $50,000 grant, Mr. Bizzell has
been asked to design a few options to replace our three “Welcome to Carthage”
gateway signs located at on Hwy. 24/27-McReynolds Street, Hwy.15-501 heading
toward Sanford and the intersection of Hwy. 22 (McNeill Street) and Hwy. 15-
501. If the project is within budget, it would help satisfy the request
received from Bert Patrick of the Carthage Garden Club and the recommendation
from the Appearance Committee to budget funds for this project in this year’s
budget cycle. Renderings of the designs will be brought to the Appearance
Committee and then the Board of Commissioners once they are received.
On March 16 th (6:00pm – 7:30pm) the Town of Carthage’s Committee Appreciation
Dinner will be held. This dinner is to show thanks and support for all of the
volunteers who serve on the Planning Board, Appearance Committee, Historical
Committee, and Carthage Century Committee and who work hard to help make the
Town a friendly, warm and thriving place to be.
Dinner will be served in the 2 nd floor ballroom of the Tyson Sinclair
Building. The Board of Commissioner’s attendance at this dinner would be
sincerely appreciated. A special thanks to volunteers Bert Patrick (Century &
Historical Committee) and Lillie Mae Barrett (Historical Committee) for their
assistance in planning and implementation of this well-deserved event. This
dinner will become a regular annual event moving forward.
The US Army Civil Affairs team will be returning to Carthage for another
training exercise in community development and problem solving. This session’s
problem set will be focused on alleviating increasing traffic through Carthage
and actions to take to ensure pedestrian safety and walkability not just in the
downtown core but from the town limits further down McReynolds Street to the
interchange at the Hardees at Hwy. 24/27 and Hwy. 15-501 and potentially
beyond. With this problem set, the Sluss-Tiller teams will be able to engage
with the community more, specifically with business owners who operate along
this route and who have been reaching out to Town staff, committee volunteers
and the Board members in recent months with concerns of visitor/customer safety
when dining, shopping, working in Town. Current planned schedule is as follows:
   Headquarters: Carthage Fire Department Training Room
   Team #1:   March 31st – April 4th 
         ∙    Introduction Brief (March 31 st @ 10:00 am)
         ∙   Final Presentation (April 4 th @ 8:30 am)
   Team 0#2:   April 7th – April 10th 
         ∙   Introduction Brief (April 7 th @ 10:00 am)
   Final Presentation (April 10 th @ 8:30 a.m.)
OTHER BUSINESS
   a.   Joseph Smith of Corvette Coral (3864 Hwy 15-501) to Address Board
Regarding Previously Denied Rezoning.
   Mr. Nelson Smith and his son, Mr. Joseph Smith addressed the Board to
request the opportunity to reapply for conditional zoning for 3864 Hwy 15-501.
Their previous petition was denied.
   The Board asked many questions of the pair and informed them that they
needed to have specific tasks/plans made for the use(s) of the property if
allowed to reapply.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo motioned to allow a new application for the Covette
Corral to request conditional zoning for the property located at 3864 Hwy 15-
501 through standard processes. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All
ayes, motion passed 4-0 (Commissioner Bonillo had arrived for the entirety of
this topic).
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   a.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.01 ) – Text Amendment to Garage/
Accessory Structure UDO Language
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff is proposing to amend the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) Section 100.56a* Special Requirements to the Table
of Permitted Uses in reference to (SR 12) Accessory Uses and Structures.
   The Board discussed the changes and recommendations at length and asked
questions of Ms. Hunt regarding the suggested changes.
   MOTION 1
   After considering the criteria for text amendments found in Article 5 of the
UDO, the first of which is consistency with the 2040 Land Use Plan,
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the proposed text amendments for
Section 100.56a* Special Requirements (SR 12) Accessory Uses and Structures are
consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and is a reasonable way to implement the
2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set forth in the Planning Board’s
recommendation, and therefore the Board of Commissioners adopts the Planning
Board resolution that is included in the attachment to the staff report for the
text amendments request, but with the following edits or additions to the
Statement(s) of Land Use Plan Consistency…
   The wording of SR 12(A)(1) be “On lots less than 40,000 square feet,
structures being used primarily as a garage must be…” and the wording for SR 12
(A)(2) be changed to “Location of all other accessory structures, (i.e. sheds,
workshops, greenhouses, etc.) must be located…”
   The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner and with a vote of 4-0, the
motion passed unanimously.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to   approve Section 100.56a* Special
Requirements (SR 12) Accessory Uses and Structures as attached to the staff
report, but with the following changes…
   The wording of SR 12(A)(1) be “On lots less than 40,000 square feet,
structures being used primarily as a garage must be…” and the wording for SR 12
(A)(2) be changed to “Location of all other accessory structures, (i.e. sheds,
workshops, greenhouses, etc.) must be located…”
   The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo and with a vote of 4-0, the
motion passed unanimously.
   b.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.02) – Text Amendment to Mobile Home
UDO Language
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff Is proposing to amend the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) for the Mobile Home language to be in accordance
with N.C.G.S. (North Carolina General Statute) 160D. Within the Unified
Development Ordinance, there are four statements which are not in accordance
with N.C.G.S. 160D-910, which allows local governments to regulate the
location, appearance, and dimensions of manufactured housing but prohibits the
regulation of use of mobile homes constructed within a certain year. Cities and
counties may not employ factors other than appearance, dimension, and location
in land use regulation of manufactured housing. Based on the court case Five
C’s, Inc. v. County of Pasquotank, the court invalidated an age standard used
as the basis for regulation of manufactured homes.
   MOTION 1
   After a brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that after
considering the criteria for text amendments found in Article 5 of the UDO, the
first of which is consistency with the 2040 Land Use Plan, the Board finds that
the proposed text amendments are consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and are
a reasonable way to implement the 2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set forth
in the Planning Board’s recommendation, and therefore the Board of
Commissioners adopts the Planning Board resolution that is included in the
attachments to the staff report for the text amendment updates. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Barber and with a unanimous vote of 4-0, the motion
passed.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the mobile home language
amendments as attached to the staff report. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the
motion and with a vote of 4-0, the motion carried.
   c.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.03) – Text Amendment to UDO Driveway
Language
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff proposed to amend the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) Section 100.57 (15) General and Dimensional
Standards for Residential Driveways. The prior ordinance update for Section
100.57 (15) “Residential Driveways for New Construction” that was adopted in
June
2022 requires additional clarification to alleviate undue hardships to property owners. The current
language does not take into consideration that lots sizes greater than “20,000
square feet” can range anywhere from half an acre to 100 acres. As a recent
example, a potential property owner wants to build a custom home on a 26-acre
tract of land on the rural outskirts of the town limits. The house is to be set
deep within the property with a driveway length of a quarter to half a mile
long. The cost of paving this long driveway in asphalt creates a large
financial burden on the potential property owner and so the feasibility of
building the house is in question because of the driveway requirements.
   MOTION 1
   After much discussion and debate on the subject, and after considering the
criteria for text amendments found in Article 5 of the UDO, the first of which
is consistency with the 2040 Land Use Plan, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion
that the text amendments for Section 100.57 
(15) Accessory Uses and Structures and Section 100.58 Off Street Parking and
Loading are consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and is a reasonable way to
implement the 2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set forth in the Planning
Board’s recommendation, and therefore the Board of Commissioners adopts the
Planning Board
resolution that is included in the attachment to the staff report for
the text amendments request, but with the following edits or additions to the
Statement(s) of Land Use Plan Consistency…
   In UDO Section 100.57 (15), the proposed 8 foot in depth concrete or masonry
driveway apron shall be CHANGED TO 20 FOOT IN DEPTH concrete or masonry
driveway apron.
   UDO Section 100.58 (4) (F), REMOVE the language “unless otherwise specified
by the Town Planner.”
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve Section 100.57 (15) Accessory
Uses and Structures and Section 100.58 Off Street Parking
and Loading as attached to the staff report, but with the following changes …
   In UDO Section 100.57 (15), the proposed 8 foot in depth concrete or masonry
driveway apron shall be CHANGED TO 20 FOOT IN DEPTH concrete or masonry
driveway apron.
   UDO Section 100.58 (4) (F), REMOVE the language “unless otherwise specified
by the Town Planner.”
   d.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.04 ) – Alcoholic Beverage Sales TOPU
Amendment
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff proposed amending the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) Section 100.55 Table of Permitted Uses, Appendix F,
to include an additional line item underneath “ABC Liquor” to have “Alcoholic
Beverage Sales (ABS)” as a permitted use in zoning districts Central Business
District (CBD), Central Business District Fringe (B-2) and Thoroughfare
Business District (TBD). Town staff has received several zoning requests to
allow ABS stores, specifically in our downtown and commercial districts. In
this memorandum the Town staff will discuss what the current zoning definitions
are, the future use land designation for these zones, the Town of Carthage
(TOC) strategic plan, the Planning Board recommendation, the current ordinances
that will apply to ABS sales and the staff comments.
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that after considering the criteria for
text amendments found in Article 5 of the UDO, the first of which is
consistency with the 2040 Land Use Plan, the Board of Commissioners finds that
the proposed text amendment is consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and is a
reasonable way to implement the 2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set forth in
the Planning Board’s recommendation, and therefore the Board of Commissioners
adopts the Planning Board resolution that is included in the attachment to the
staff report for the text amendment update. Commissioner Tanner seconded the
motion and it carried unanimously with a vote of 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the text amendment update for
ABS sales in the CBD, B-2 and TBD zoning districts as attached to the staff
report. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo and with a vote of 4-0,
passed unanimously.
   e.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.05) – Text Amendment to UDO Tractor
Trailer Ordinance
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff is proposing NOT to amend the UDO
Section 100.57(21, in reference to the use of mobile homes, travel trailers and
truck trailers to be used for storage purposes.
   The current UDO language for “Section 100.57(21) General and Dimensional
Standards” is as follows:
   The use of mobile homes, travel trailers and truck trailers for storage
purposes shall be expressly prohibited in all zoning districts.
   MOTION 1
   After very brief discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion after
considering the criteria for text amendments found in Article 5 of the UDO, the
first of which is consistency with the 2040 Land Use Plan, the Board of
Commissioners fins that the proposed text amendment, to leave the current
ordinance as it is currently, is consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and is
a reasonable way to implement the 2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set forth
in the Planning Board’s recommendation, and therefore the Board of
Commissioners adopts the Planning Board resolution that is included in the
attachment to the staff report for the text amendment update. Commissioner
Barber seconded the motion which carried unanimously with a vote of 4-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Barber made a motion to approve Section 100.57 (21) as attached
to the staff report. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 4-
0, the motion passed unanimously.
QUASI-JUDICIAL HEARING
   f.   Quasi-Judicial Hearing – Variance Request by Re-Fuel for Continued Use
of Nonconforming Pole Sign
      1)   Refuel Operating Company, located at 950 Monroe Street, has
requested a variance due to the inability to keep their sign per the Town’s
current Unified Development Ordinance Standards. The current sign is
approximately 219 square feet; however, the UDO states that with a lot frontage
of 200-299 feet there is a maximum of 75 square feet for a pole sign. Refuel
has expressed their wish to keep their current sign and relocate it on the
property due to the road widening easement by NCDOT for Monroe Street.
      2)   The Board of Commissioners during this hearing will preside as the
Board of Adjustment. Under section 100.25 the purpose of the Board of
Adjustment is as follows:
         i.   The Board of Commissioners is hereby designated as the Board of
Adjustment for the purposes of this Ordinance. In all cases where this
Ordinance requires an action by the Board of Adjustment, the Board of
Commissioners acting as a Board of Adjustment shall perform such duty.
      3)   Proceedings of the Board of Adjustments in Section 100.26 are as
follows:
         i.   The Board shall adopt rules and by-laws in accordance with the
provisions of this Ordinance and by Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of
North Carolina. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairman, who shall be the Mayor, and at such other times as the Board may
determine. The Chairman, or in the Chairman’s absence, the Vice Chairman, who
shall be the Mayor Pro-Tem, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses by subpoena. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
            1.   The concurring vote of a majority of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
administrative official charged with enforcement of this Ordinance or to decide
in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass under
the Zoning provisions or to affect any variation of such provisions.
      4)   The sign under the UDO cannot qualify as a non-conforming structure.
The language in the UDO is as follows for non-conforming structures:
         i.   Changed or replaced with another non-conforming sign, except that
copy may be changed.
         ii.   Expanded or modified in any way which increases the sign’s non-
conformity. Nor may illumination be added.
         iii.   Moved except to bring the sign into complete conformity with
this Article.
         iv.   Re-established once the sign structure has been removed.
         v.   Re-established after damage or deterioration as defined in Sec.
4.
         vi.   Re-established after it has been discontinued regardless of
reason or intent for 120 days or more.
      5)   This variance hearing is a quasi-judicial hearing. A variance,
according to our Unified Development Ordinance, the applicant must prove one of
the follow hardships to the Board of Adjustments:
         i.   The hardship results from the application of the zoning
provisions of this Ordinance;
         ii.   The hardship is suffered by the applicant’s property
         iii.   The hardship is not a result of the applicant’s own actions
         iv.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant’s property
      6)   It should be noted that if there are any questions or concerns
during the quasi-judicial process, the Town Attorney, Brady Herman, was
available to assist and guide the Board of Adjustment for legality purposes.
      7)   Evidence presented by the applicant:
         i.   Refuel bought out ALCO in 2021.
         ii.   The applicant (Mr. Jennings representing) received notice of
easement widening.
         iii.   Current sign is 219 square feet.
         iv.   75 square feet of signage is allowed.
         v.   The sign needs to be removed by the end of March.
         vi.   It is an anchor/bolt structure, and they want to simply take
apart the sign and move to the Pete Kelly Road side of the parking lot.
         vii.   Structure will still be in the construction easement.
         viii.   Unable to be moved into the parking lot as it is shared with
Walgreens.
         ix.   The applicant is asking to take the sign as it is now and set
three new foundations with bolt/anchor structure and move to the Pete Kelly Rd
easement.
         x.   Approval was received from the state.
         xi.   The height of the sign is good but the square footage is too
big.
         xii.   Setback of eight feet is two feet short of required 10-foot set
back.
         xiii.   Question asked by Town Manager, Emily Yopp: Where the new
location is proposed, is the elevation the same? Jenkins answered that it is
lower in the proposed location.
         xiv.   If approved, the sign will be taken down and restacked on the
same day.
         xv.   Commissioner Tanner asked if the landscaping would be the same
as is currently in place? Jenkins answered that he was unsure at this time.
         xvi.   Emily Yopp asked Mr. Jenkins if there was a minimum for setback
for the sign? Mr. Jenkins replied that between 5-8 feet would be needed.
         xvii.   DOT requires concrete footers be removed.
         xviii.   There is no way to get electricity to the sign.
         xix.   Commissioner Tanner stated for the record that the project is
widening the road to three lanes with sidewalks down the south side from the
historical courthouse to the McDonald’s sign. Emily Yopp will request a
rendering of the proposed widening project from DOT. The project is in the
easement acquisition stage now with an anticipated completion date in 2024.
DISCUSSION
Commissioner Bonillo commented that the moving of the sign was not of the
applicant’s doing. Commissioner Tanner agreed that the applicant met all four
hardships, not just the one required. Commissioner Barber agreed that it
appeared as if the applicant had exhausted all other options.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion that based on the evidence in conjunction
with the hardship requirements for variance, the applicant has met the criteria
for a variance to include the 5-8 foot set back instead of the required 10 foot
set back and approve the use of the current non-conforming 219 square foot
sign. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. With a vote of 4-0, the
vote carried unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Set Dates for Budget Planning Sessions
   It is budget planning time again and with so many important decisions to be
made, it has been mentioned that it might be a better idea to plan to hold 2-
3 smaller sessions instead of one long session to better dissect and
disseminate the information before making a decision.
   MOTION
   I move to hold the Budget Planning Sessions on Saturday, March 18 at 10:00
am and Saturday, March 25 at 10:00 am with the meetings being to be held at the
Fire Department Training Room located at 4396 Hwy 15/501, Carthage.
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion which passed unanimously with a vote of
4-0.
   b.   Buggy Festival Road Closure Request (Ordinance # ORD.23.06 )
   Each year we have to request road closures from the DOT and they require
approval from the Board of Commissioners. The closures should be the same as
years past.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion that Ordinance #ORD.23.06 be approved
allowing for the closure of all necessary roads from 5:30am until 7:30p for the
Buggy Festival to be held on Saturday, May 13, 2023. The motion was seconded by
Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
   c.   Surety Bond Request from Carriage Place Townhomes for Phase 2
   David Chapman, developer for Carriage Place Townhomes, is requesting the
Board’s consideration of a performance guarantee agreement to all a cash bond
for certain improvements so that final plat may be approved by Town staff and
construction of phase 2 townhomes may begin. The draft agreement and estimates
for improvements to be guaranteed are included on the following pages.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to accept the Performance Guarantee
Agreement for the Completion of Carriage Place Townhomes as presented. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   d.   Request to Give Fire Sub-Station 38 to High Falls.
   With staffing levels of the Fire Department being maintained at less than
ideal levels and the distance of 10 miles between our home station 31 and
substation 38, Fire Chief, Brian Tyner is requesting that we surrender the sub-
station to High Falls.
   Fire Chief Tyner states that citizens and their insurance ratings will not
be affected by this change as both stations hold the same ISO rating.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to give control and jurisdiction of fire
sub-station 38 to High Falls with the transfer of responsibility ending for
Carthage Fire & Rescue after June 30, 2023 and High Falls taking over on July
1, 2023. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes, the motion
carried 4-0.
   e.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.23.06) – Cristi Carras
Rezoning of 8385 Hwy 24/27 (Old Kivet’s Store).
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
the rezoning of 8385 Hwy 24/27 and that the hearing be held at the next regular
meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for March 20th at 6:30 p.m. at
the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street, Carthage. The motion
was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, the motion carried 4-0.
   f.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.23.07) -- Text Amendment to
UDO Language Regarding Fences
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider a
text amendment to UDO language regarding fences and that the hearing be held at
the next regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for March 20th
at 6:30 p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street,
Carthage. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes, the motion
carried 4-0.
   g.   Accept the Dedication of the Parcel of Land from Jackson/Chapman
located on Robert Place.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to accept the land deeded over to the Town
by Jackson/Chapman developers. Commissioner Barber seconded and the motion
passed unanimously with a vote of 4-0.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Rural Transformation Grant – Adoption of a Uniform Guidance Policy &
Conflict of Interest Policy
   The attached policies are required to be submitted to the Department of
Commerce for the Rural Transformation Grant. Attorney Brady Herman has drafted
these policies and they are submitted to the Board of Commissioners for review
and approval.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the Uniform Guidance Policy,
Conflicts of Interest Policy and Uniform Guidance Purchasing and Procurement
Policy. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, the motion passed
unanimously.
   b.   Phase 2 Sewer Expansion Project, Document Approvals.
      ∙    Letter of Consistency with Local Development
      ∙    Attorney’s Certification
      ∙     Legal Services Agreement
      ∙    Letter of Engagement for USDA Revenue Bond
   The Town’s application for consideration of funding from the USDA for the
purpose of conducting a Phase II Sewer Expansion Project up Hwy. 15-501 has
been accepted by the USDA. As such, the above documents are required to be
reviewed and accepted by the Board and submitted to USDA.
   Please note, these documents do not bind the Town to conduct the Phase II
Sewer Expansion project at this time. Once the Town receives an offer of
assistance from the USDA with their terms (grant % vs. loan %) the Board will
reconvene to review the terms and either move forward with the sewer expansion
project or choose not to pursue it.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that after considering the documents as
presented, the Board of Commissioners finds that the Phase II Sewer Improvement
Project to purchase or improve sewer access and capacity within our
jurisdiction is consistent with local development plans for our area and that
all other documents as presented are acceptable and that the Town staff may
move forward with submitting them to the USDA as requested. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Barber and passed with a unanimous vote of 4-0.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Tanner motioned to adjourn the regular
meeting. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 4-0.
The regular meeting was adjourned at 9:55 p.m.
MARCH 20, 2023
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
March 20, 2023
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were, Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald,
Brent Tanner, Al Barber, and Dan Bonillo. Commissioner Anton Sadovnikov was in
attendance virtually.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Pro Tem led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Brent Tanner gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve the agenda with the addition of the
following:
      ∙   Budget Amendment #12—To receive and allocate the funds paid by Moore
County Schools and Duke Energy for our off-duty officers’ work.
      ∙   Budget Amendment #13—To receive and allocate a donation given to the
Historical Committee.
      ∙   Series Resolution providing for the sale and issuance of a $1,703,000
water and sewer system revenue bond, Series2023A, A $903,000 water and sewer
system revenue bond, Series 2023B and a $842,000 water and sewer system revenue
bond, Series 2023C.
   Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to go out of the regular meeting. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. With a 5-0 vote, the motion passed
unanimously.
   MOTION
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald made a motion to go into the Public Hearing portion
of the meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. The motion carried
unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
The floor was opened for public comment with no citizen participation.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   a.   Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does
become a part of these minutes.
   Town staff have been working closely with Cheryl Degraffenreid to spread the
word about the upcoming Needmore and Town of Carthage public community meeting
where we will revisit the goals of the Needmore Small Area Plan, review and
discuss a re-design of the Needmore Community Garden & Park property and
discuss the design and installation of a gateway sign at Needmore Road and Old
Glendon Road.
   The meeting will be held on April 20 from 4:00 – 6:00 p.m. at the McDonald
Building located at 207 McReynolds Street. Members of the Board of
Commissioners and Appearance Committee are invited to attend.
   Mrs. Yopp stated that the Town recently received site plans for the Buggy
Factory by Southern Pines Brewing Co. Town Planner, Jennifer Hunt and the staff
will be conducting a technical review of the plans and getting them back to the
SPB team as quickly as possible to ensure that we remain on schedule.
   Town staff have been in communication with the owners of the Little River
property and are currently discussing the next steps with their development
plans. I hope to be able to provide the Board with a timeline of activity by
the next regular meeting in April.
   Mrs. Yopp informed the Board that the Civil Affairs Sluss-Tiller Exercise
begins March 31st. Group #1 will be in town March 31st – April 4th and Group #2
April 7 – April 10th. She has planned for each group to meet with business
owners in the downtown core on Saturday April 1 and April 8 to hear from some
of our most affected community members. I am looking forward to hearing what
the groups come up with as they address dense traffic through Carthage for
their problem set this round.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   a.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.06) – Christi Carras Conditional
Zoning Request for PID#00003613, 8385 NC 24-27 Hwy/Old Kivett’s Store.
   Town Planner, Jennifer Hunt, presented the applicants request and the
staff’s findings along with recommendations from the Planning Board.
   A conditional zoning request from the applicant, Cristi Carras, whose
father, Paul Cummings, owns the old thrift store on Highway 24-27, also known
as “Kivett’s Store,” at the cross streets of Bethlehem Church Road and Highway
24-27. Ms. Carras would like to petition to have PARID 00003613 (where the
current thrift store building is located) to be a part of the conditional
zoning (RA-40 CZ) already approved for PARID 00003612. The address is 8385 HWY
NC 24 Carthage, NC 28327. Both parcels are adjacent to each other and have the
same owner. PARID 00003613 was not included when the adjacent PARID 00003612
was approved to be conditionally zoned in 2004. In UDO Section 100.8 this valid
“conditional use zoning district- CU” is converted to conditional zoning,
effective January 1, 2021, in accordance with N.C.G.S. 160D.
   The floor was opened for public comment and two citizens chose to speak.
John Lewis and Debra D’Angelo both of 148 Bethlehem Church Road. Mr. Lewis
expressed his opinion that based upon his reading of the public minutes from
the original Public Hearing for conditional zoning in 2004, he feels that there
was an administrative error made and that the property should be allowed to be
conditionally zoned to allow the thrift store.
   Ms. D’Angelo agreed that the thrift store should be allowed, but expressed
concerns over the traffic pattern, speed, and parking concerns.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to close the public hearing and move back
into the regular meeting. Commissioner Barber seconded and the motion carried
unanimously by a vote of 5-0.
   There was much discussion between the members of the Board to include the
traffic and parking concerns along with the fact that staff feels that there
was an administrative error made in the 2004 conditional zoning request.
   Parking was a decided concern and the Board debated the issue extensively.
It was finally decided that the applicant, Ms. Carras would reapply to
conditionally zone the original property, PID#00003612 to be zoned RA-40 CZ for
parking only.
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to TABLE this request until the
applicant, Ms. Carras makes a new application for conditional zoning on
PID#00003612 to allow for parking for the thrift store with all application
fees to be waived. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0,
the motion passed unanimously.
   b.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.07) – UDO Text Amendment to Section
100.57 (11) “Fences and Walls”
   Town Planner, Jennifer Hunt, presented the request for a text amendment to
the UDO Section 100.57 (11) “Fences and Walls.”
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff is proposing to amend the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) language for “Fences and Walls” in Section 100.57
(11) in order to be more flexible with homeowners and not create unnecessary
financial hardship.
   The proposed amendment represents an analysis of our fence and wall UDO
language which revealed to Planning staff the difficulty of administering this
ordinance. For a homeowner to only have the option to put in wrought iron fence
does not provide flexibility in design, options for higher quality material
with a more reasonable cost or creativity.
   The Planning Board recommended setbacks 2 feet from all property lines in
residential and commercial districts.
   The floor was opened for public comment and three citizens, Jose Ybanez of
1210 Gracie Lane, Malcolm Hall of 517 S. McNeill Street, and Debra D’Angelo of
148 Bethlehem Church Road addressed the Board.
   Mr. Ybanez spoke to the fact that he currently lives in a townhome on Gracie
Lane and the 2 foot setbacks would take a significant amount of yard from his
property. He requested allowing fences to be placed on the property line,
allowing neighbors to potentially share the expense and upkeep of the fencing.
   Mr. Hall expressed the opinion that the 2 foot setback would be a good idea
as he had a neighbor that had an invisible fence that encroached on his
property. He felt that the 2 feet could be lowered to a 1 foot setback but felt
that some sort of setback would be good to ensure that property lines were
maintained when neighbors do not always agree.
   Ms. D’Angelo addressed the Board to request they also include aluminum
fencing in the “allowed materials” for fencing. She stated that the aluminum
fencing looks appealing and is less expensive than a lot of other materials
while being durable at the same time.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to close the public hearing and move back
into the regular meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded and the motion carried
unanimously by a vote of 5-0.
 
   After much discussion, to include the concerns of all three citizens, the
Planning Board recommendations, and staff recommendations, the Board
deliberated the issues.
   MOTION 1
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion that the proposed text amendments for
100.57 (11) “Fences and Walls” are consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and
is a reasonable way to implement the 2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set
forth in the Planning Board’s recommendation, and therefore the Board of
Commissioners adopts the Planning Board resolution that is included in the
attachment to the staff report for the text amendments request, but with the
following edits or additions to the Statement(s) of Land Use Plan Consistency…
   Item b. be changed as follows: Fencing on lots 10,000 square feet or less
are limited to materials such as white vinyl, wrought iron, brick, stucco,
stone, or aluminum.
   Item d. be changed as follows: “Fences must be placed two (2) feet from the
Right-of-Way or from any sidewalk unless an encroachment permit is obtained by
administrative approval.
   Commissioner Tanner seconded and the motion carried unanimously by a vote of
5-0.
 
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve Section 100.57 (11) “Fences
and Walls” as attached to the staff report, but with the following changes…
   Item b. be changed as follows: Fencing on lots 10,000 square feet or less
are limited to materials such as white vinyl, wrought iron, brick, stucco,
stone, or aluminum.
   Item d. be changed as follows: “Fences must be placed two (2) feet from the
Right-of-Way or from any sidewalk unless an encroachment permit is obtained by
administrative approval.
   Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded, and the motion carried unanimously by a
vote of 5-0.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Adopt a Road Presentation
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff is proposing the Board of Commissioners
adopt a process to enact an “Adopt-A-Street” program for the Town of Carthage
(TOC). This is important for our community because it can help us keep the TOC
litter free, utilizing interested citizens in the community to help clean up
our roads and keep up the beautification of our community. It can also save the
TOC taxpayer dollars in road clean ups. Citizens have expressed an interest in
adopting a road here in Carthage to clean up and we need to formalize a process
first.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve the Adopt-A-Street process
application as presented pending budgetary consideration. Commissioner Barber
seconded the motion which passed unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   b.   Surplus equipment disposition request
   Many departments have items that they are no longer using or does not
operate. Many items have been replaced; however, in order to dispose of or sell
items, the Board of Commissioners must approve the surplus list to allow for
departments to remove such items from their inventory. Below are the items that
are requested for surplus which will either be sold on www.govdeals.com or will
be disposed of in another way.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      ∙    Fire Rescue Boat
      ∙    Numerous sets of outdated turnout gear
      ∙    26 outdated SCBA bottles
      ∙    1994 Ford Super Duty 4x2 Brush Truck
   PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
      ∙    Case 595 tractor
      ∙    John Deere 997 mower
      ∙    Ferris 44” mower
      ∙    Miscellaneous equipment*
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the surplus list. Mayor Pro Tem
seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
   c.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.23.08) – Rezoning request
for 2.5 acres of Magnolia Hill.
   The applicant, Wesley Fricks, on behalf of the property owner for Tyler’s
Ridge Business Park, is requesting a rezoning for a 2.5-acre parcel located at
6749 NC HWY 22 in Carthage, PARID 20210407. This parcel was originally approved
for TBD-CZ, as part of the Magnolia Hill Master Plan that was approved in
January 2021. This is known as Parcel #1 in the Magnolia Hill Master Plan.
   Parcel #1 was approved for a maximum retail space of 3,500 square feet with
55% impervious surface area. The TBD-CZ, approved from January 2021, allows for
any use that is currently a permitted use in the Thoroughfare Business District
with future site plan approval required for this parcel. The applicant would
like to re-zone and change Parcel #1 to an Apartment Complex with associated
parking, accommodating two additional buildings with 24 units in each building,
with a total of 48 units. The apartment complex is aligned with what is
approved for the abutting Parcel #2 in the Magnolia Hill Master Plan from
January 2021.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
the rezoning request for 2.5 acres of Magnolia Hill to be held at the next
regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners scheduled for April 17th at 6:30
p.m. at the McDonald Building located at 207 McReynolds Street, Carthage. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Barber. All ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   d.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.23.09) – Text Amendment to
UDO regarding sign requirements.
   Town staff is requesting to revise language to the current sign ordinance.
Not only is the current sign ordinance outdated, but it is also very difficult
for staff to administer the ordinance. Without proper measurements of building
faces and square footage of those buildings, the burden of proof and
responsibility is often left to staff to determine if a sign is allowed. Town
staff is looking to make the sign language more up to date by allowing the
burden of proof to fall on property/business owners and to minimize confusion
among businesses and staff for what is required per the UDO.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to call for a public hearing to consider
updates to the UDO regarding sign requirements. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Barber. All ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
   e.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.23.10) – Amendment to the
Variance Ordinance.
   As the Town ordinances and UDO must comply and conform with NC General
Statute, we would need to call a Public Hearing to update our UDO to comply
with the General Statute.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to call for a public hearing to call a
Public Hearing for the purpose of hearing the request to amend the text for
Variances in our UDO at the regularly scheduled meeting to be held on Monday,
April 17, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. to be held in the McDonald Building, located at 207
McReynolds Street. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes,
the motion carried 5-0.
   f.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution # RES.23.11) – Special Meeting in
May regarding Budget Discussion.
   NCGS § 160A-349.7 requires the Board to hold a public hearing 30 days prior
to the adoption of the final budget. Following the Budget Planning Sessions on
March 18 and 25, the Town staff will be preparing the budget according to the
Board’s wishes and will need to bring forth the initial draft for review.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call a special public meeting for the
purpose of reviewing the initial budget for fiscal year 2023-2024 to be held on
Monday, May 22, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. to be held in the McDonald Building, located
at 207 McReynolds Street. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All
ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
AGENDA ADDITIONS
   g.   Budget Amendment #12 – Receive and allocate funds received for off-duty
police officers’ work.
   Moore County Schools requested police presence at football games. Off-duty
officers responded to the request. Also, during the power outage in December
2022, Duke Energy requested officers (Town and County) to work as security for
the damaged power stations. Officers also responded to this request. This
budget amendment is to receive and allocate the funds paid by these
organizations for our off-duty officers’ work.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve Budget Amendment #12 with a
second from Commissioner Bonillo. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
   h.   Budget Amendment #13 – Receive and allocate funds received for a
donation made to the Carthage Historical Committee.
   The Carthage Historical Committee received a donation to be used for the
curation, maintenance, interpretation and display of materials relating to the
Williamson family, the Humber family, and/or intellectual and cultural life in
Carthage in the first half of the 20 th century. This amendment is to receive
and allocate that donation.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve Budget Amendment #13 with a
second from Mayor Pro Tem McDonald. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
   i.   Series Resolution providing for the sale and issuance of a $1,703,000
water and sewer system revenue bond, Series2023A, A $903,000 water and sewer
system revenue bond, Series 2023B and a $842,000 water and sewer system revenue
bond, Series 2023C.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the Series Resolution providing
for the sale and issuance of a $1,703,000 water and sewer system revenue bond,
Series2023A, A $903,000 water and sewer system revenue bond, Series 2023B and a
$842,000 water and sewer system revenue bond, Series 2023C. the motion was
seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. With a vote of 5-0, the motion carried
unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Phase II Sewer Discussion
   Town Manager, Emily Yopp addressed the Board to update them on the status of
the USDA Grant request and to detail the need for and what areas the
improvements will benefit withing the town. Mark Lacy, Project Manager and
Engineer with LKC Engineering was also available for any questions from the
Board.
   The Town is seeking a combined grant/loan for $22 million. This money will
help fund improvements to the sewer system and upgrade the capacity for the
Eastern part of Carthage proper. This project will open sewer capacity so we
can continue with development in and around our Town. If these improvements are
not made, we will be forced into an involuntary moratorium on development.
   b.   Discussion and Review of changes coming to Utility billing and
policies.
   Changes were made and adopted in July 2022 to the Leak Adjustment Policy but
are just now being implemented due to a delay in software deployment of the new
EyeOnWater customer portal. The EyeOnWater portal will allow customers to view
their account usage and set water leak alerts to notify them immediately when a
leak has been detected at their service address. That service is currently
available to all Town Utility customers.
   With that software available, the Leak Adjustment Policy will take effect on
July 1, 2023. That policy will set forth the new changes that do not allow for
leak adjustments on water leaks.
   At the end of this current month (March), our new bill payment system,
Invoice Cloud will be operational. Invoice Cloud will offer customers the
ability to view and pay bills online, by text message, by phone, or by email.
This is a great improvement over the current system which allows for payment
online, but customers cannot see their bills. The automated phone pay option
will free up staff to work on other tasks instead of taking credit card
payments.
   Lastly, the water cut-off policy that is currently in place will be
enforced. The current policy is that customers receive their bills, and they
are all due on the 25th of each month. If not paid by the 5th of the following
month, a late penalty is applied, and water service is disconnected. No second
notice is to be given. However, traditionally, a one-time warning has been
being given to new customers and those that have not been late in the last 12-
month period.
   With the tools now available and with the policy already in place, there
will no longer be that “soft” warning to customers.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Bonillo motioned to adjourn the regular
meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried 5-0.
The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:50 p.m.
APRIL 17, 2023
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
April 17, 2023
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were, Mayor Jimmy Chaflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald,
Commissioners Brent Tanner, Al Barber, and Anton Sadovnikov. Commissioner Dan
Bonillo was present by virtual meeting link.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Chalflinch led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Sadovnikov gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner motioned to approve the agenda with the addition of
adding discussion of Retention Bonus to the New Business section. Commissioner
Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve consent agenda items of Meeting
Minutes from the Regular Meetings held on February 20, 2023 and March 20, 2023.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
The floor was opened up for public comment, but the only participants were
present for the Public Hearings. The General Public Comment session was closed.
MANAGER’S REPORT
Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does become a
part of these minutes. Mrs. Yopp gave a reminder to the Board that the Needmore
community would host a public meeting with residents of the Needmore community
and Town staff to discuss plans for a community garden/park and proposed
designs for a community gateway sign. Meeting to be held next Thursday, April
20th at the McDonald Building from 4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.
The Town finished another Civil Affairs Sluss-Tiller Exercise focused on
improving pedestrian safety in the downtown circle. The teams provided near-
term, mid-term and long-term ideas for implementing signs, speed counters and
funding opportunities to support these efforts. The Board was provided with a
PowerPoint presentation ( Exhibit B ) created by team #2 with some creative
solutions that the Town may consider as part of a pedestrian safety action
plan. Town staff is actively working on research and development on plans as
well.
Mrs. Yopp informed the Board that a new staff member had joined the
Administrative Team. Amy Pearman, Accounting Specialist, started at Town Hall
on April 17 th . Staff is looking forward to having her on the team and having
her assistance in the accounting department alongside Kesha Matthews, Finance
Officer.
Mrs. Yopp concluded her report by stating that the new payment portal system,
Invoice Cloud, is live and utility payments are now being accepted online and
via our automated telephone system. As with any new software implementation,
staff are still working through back-end issues and learning new processes but
overall, staff is pleased with the variety of payment options for utility
customers and the increase in productivity for staff.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
   a.   Public Hearing – Christi Carras Conditional Zoning Request for 8385 NC
24-27 Hwy/Old Kivett’s Store
   Request to be continued until the June 2023 regular meeting as applicant has
not received all necessary information/quotes.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to TABLE the Public Hearing for the
Conditional Zoning request for 8385 NC 24-27 Hwy until the next regular meeting
scheduled for Monday, May 15, 2023 at 6:30 pm in the McDonald Building located
at 207 McReynolds Street. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner and
passed unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   b.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.08) – UDO Text Amendment to Section
100.29 (2)(a) “Powers and Duties of the Board of Adjustment – Variances”
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff is proposing to amend the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) language for “Variances” to be in accordance with
N.C.G.S. (North Carolina General Statute) 160D-705.
   MOTION 1
   After a brief discussion, and with no contributing public comment,
Commissioner Tanner made a motion that after considering the criteria for text
amendments found in Article 5 of the UDO, the first of which is consistency
with the 2040 Land Use Plan, the Board finds that the proposed text amendments
are consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and are a reasonable way to
implement the 2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set forth in the Planning
Board’s recommendation, and therefore the Board of Commissioners adopts the
Planning Board resolution that is included in the attachments to the staff
report for the text amendment updates. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Barber and with a unanimous vote of 5-0, the motion passed.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the text amendment update in
Section 100.29 (2)(a) for variances as attached to the staff report.
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion and with a vote of 5-0, the motion
carried unanimously.
   c.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.09) – UDO Text Amendment to Section
100.59 “Sign Regulations” and Section 100.65-6 “Major Subdivisions”
   The Town staff is requesting to revise language to the current sign
ordinance in Section 100.59 “Sign Regulations” and Section 100.65-6 “Major
Subdivisions.” Not only is the current sign ordinance outdated, but it is also
very difficult for staff to administer the ordinance. Without proper
measurements of building faces and square footage of those buildings, the
burden of proof and responsibility is often left to staff to determine if a
sign is allowed. Town staff is looking to make the sign language more up to
date by allowing the burden of proof to fall on property/business owners and to
minimize confusion among businesses and staff for what is required per the UDO.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Malcolm Hall requested to address the Board and provided a written List of
observations and questions for the Board regarding the ordinance and it’s
proposed changes ( Exhibit A ). Mr. Hall expressed his desire to clarify some
items, such as temporary signs and political signs. The Board discussed those
topics with staff and Mr. Hall and gained clarification prior closing the
Public Comment session of the hearing.
MOTION 1
After much discussion and debate on the subject, and after considering the
public comment and criteria for text amendments found in Article 5 of the UDO,
the first of which is consistency with the 2040 Land Use Plan, Commissioner
Sadovnikov made a motion that the proposed text amendments for Section 100.59 
(15) “Sign Regulations” and Section 100.65-6 “Major Subdivisions” are
consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan and is a reasonable way to implement the
2040 Land Use Plan for the reasons set forth in the Planning Board’s
recommendation, and therefore the Board of Commissioners adopts the Planning
Board resolution that is included in the attachment to the staff report for
the text amendments request, but with the following edits or additions to the
Statement(s) of Land Use Plan Consistency…
In UDO Section 100.59 (9)(b), the proposed “No sign shall be in public street
medians or traffic islands” be REMOVED.
In UDO Section 100.59 (9), ADD “Political signs must be removed within 10 days
after a Primary election, but may be placed out again no more than 30 days
prior to the general election.”
In UDO Section 100.59 (11) (b) (Table 11.2, row 2, column 4) Correct error of
“27 feet” to “27 inches.”
Commissioner Barber seconded the motion and with a vote of 5-0, the motion
passed unanimously.
MOTION 2
Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve Section 100.59 “Sign Regulations”
and Section 100.65-6 “Major
Subdivisions” as attached to the staff report, but with the following changes …
In UDO Section 100.59 (9)(b), the proposed “No sign shall be in public street
medians or traffic islands” be REMOVED.
In UDO Section 100.59 (9), ADD “Political signs must be removed within 10 days
after a Primary election, but may be placed out again no more than 30 days
prior to the general election.”
In UDO Section 100.59 (11) (b) (Table 11.2, row 2, column 4) Correct error of
“27 feet” to “27 inches.”
Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion and with a vote of 5-0, the motion
passed unanimously.
   d.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD>23.10) – Conditional Zoning Amendment,
Rezone TBD-CZ for Parcel #1 (2.5 acres) from the Magnolia Hill Master Plan,
PARID: 20210407
   The applicant, Wesley Fricks, on behalf of the property owner for Tyler’s
Ridge Business Park, is requesting a rezoning for a 2.5-acre parcel located at
6749 NC HWY 22 in Carthage, PARID 20210407. This parcel was originally approved
for TBD-CZ, as part of the Magnolia Hill Master Plan that was approved in
January 2021. This is known as Parcel #1 in the Magnolia Hill Master Plan.
Please view Exhibit C and Exhibit D .
   Parcel #1 was approved for a maximum retail space of 3,500 square feet with
55% impervious surface area. The TBD-CZ, approved from January 2021, allows for
any use that is currently a permitted use in the Thoroughfare Business District
with future site plan approval required for this parcel. The applicant would
like to re-zone and change Parcel #1 to an Apartment Complex with associated
parking, accommodating two additional buildings with 24 units in each building,
with a total of 48 units. The apartment complex is aligned with what is
approved for the abutting Parcel #2 in the Magnolia Hill Master Plan from
January 2021.
   Mr. Fricks was available to answer questions put forth by the Board.
   MOTION 1
   After much deliberation and with no contributing public comment,
Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion that after considering the information
presented, that the Board of Commissioners find the conditional zoning is
consistent with the 2040 Land Use Plan Goal 2—Coordinated, intentional, and
well-planned growth and development and Goal 11—Regulations that are consistent
with the Town’s vision. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion and it carried
unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   MOTION 2
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve CZ-03-23 as written and
presented. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Sadovnikov and with a vote
of 5-0, passed unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS
   a.   Town Entrance Signs
   The Town of Carthage staff has been working closely with Buzz Bizzell with
Bizzell Design, Inc. to design signage for wayfinding and placemaking purposes.
Four design options for new entrance signs have been created and are to be
installed following the decision of approval. See Exhibit E .
   These entrance signs will be located where the current welcome signs are: NC
24/27 Hwy coming in on McReynolds Street; US 15/501 Hwy coming into downtown
from Sanford; and US 15/501 Hwy and NC 22 Hwy coming in from Pinehurst. Also
proposed is a visitor parking sign that will be located pointing towards the
McDonald Building parking lot and another location at the Moore County Parking
lot. On the visitor parking sign there will also be a kiosk with a map of
downtown places to eat, shop, and visit.
   At their regular meeting held April 10th, the Appearance Committee voted 4-
1 to recommend Design A to the Board of Commissioners. It was not an easy
decision as all of the signs are attractive.
   MOTION
   After much discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to place sign
choice “B” with added uplighting for the two entrances off NC 24/27 Hwy and US
15/501 Hwy coming in from Sanford and place sign choice “C” at the US 15/501
Hwy and NC 22 Hwy entrance. Commissioner Barber seconded the motion which
passed unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   **NOTE: It is to be noted that a survey of the community was suggested the
day after the meeting and each Commissioner agreed to get community input prior
to enacting the motion.
   b.   RTGF Implementation Grant (Resolution #RES.23.12)
   The Town staff would like to apply for the RTGF Implementation Grant which
is for $50,000. As part of staff participation in the R2C program, Carthage is
very likely to receive funding from this grant. It can be used to implement a
project from a current plan already in place as well as a new plan.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to approve the Town staff to apply for the
RTGF Implementation Grant. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Barber. All
ayes, motion carried 5-0.
   c.   Staff Retention Bonus
   As presented at the Budget Retreat on March 18, 2023, staff is proposing a
retention bonus to be paid to eligible staff members employed as of April 1,
2023, in two tier options as follows:
   •   Tier 1 – full-time employees = $3000
   •   Tier 2 – part-time employees working at least 12 hours per week on a
regular basis = $1,000 This one-time retention bonus would be paid with dollars
already saved in the current budget year in the salaries and benefit line items
due to vacant positions. The dollar savings that have already been experienced
this fiscal year are greater than $178,000 and could grow to an even larger
amount by the end of the fiscal year. The cost to implement the retention bonus
proposal will be approximately $97,000, which will still allow for more than
$81,000 of surplus dollars not used for salaries and benefits this fiscal year
to be used elsewhere as needed.
   Staff proposes that eligible employees will have the option to either accept
or decline this retention bonus, with the caveat that if the employee leaves
employment prior to April 1, 2024then a prorated gross amount will be repaid to
the Town through payroll deduction from the employee’s final paycheck. The
attached payroll deduction form provides additional details on how the prorated
deduction would work and gives employees the option to either accept or decline
the retention bonus. See Exhibit F . The goal of this bonus will be to provide
an additional incentive for employees to continue working for the Town of
Carthage. Employees have worked extremely hard over the past 9 months
fulfilling their responsibilities while also being short-staffed, and this
opportunity would provide a way to acknowledge and thank employees for their
dedicated service and provide an incentive for staff retention.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to authorize a retention bonus to all
eligible employees with the conditions as presented. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, the motion carried 5-0.
OLD BUSINESS
   a.   Adopt a Road Program Cost Review
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff was asked to investigate how much it
would cost the Town to manage the Adopt-A-Road program. The costs are estimated
on a yearly basis. The Town would be responsible for providing an orange or
yellow safety vest, trash grabbers, trash bags and will pick up the trash when
each cleanup is completed. The Town will also provide a sign after three years
of consecutive service. (See Exhibit G for costs.)
   MOTION
   With little discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to approve the
purchase of the recommended equipment and costs to include safety vests, trash
grabbers, trash bags, street signs, and staff time, as presented and at or near
the cost provided in the quotes provided. Commissioner Tanner seconded the
motion. All ayes, the motion passed unanimously, 5-0.
   b.   Static Military Display Tank: Cost, Application and Timeline Letter of
Consistency with Local Development
   The Town of Carthage Commissioner, Dan Bonillo asked Planning staff to
research how to apply for a static military display of a tank to install near
Roland’s Gilliam’s aviation museum at the Gilliam McConnell Airport as part of
the trial plan in the adopted Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan.
   The cost for the shared use greenway path (#2) from Nancy Kiser Park to
Airport Road where the Pik-N-Pig is located, according to the adopted Bicycle
and Pedestrian Plan from 2018 is estimated to be $986,700.
   According to the USARMY, “The town would be responsible for constructing a
cement pad for the display, demilitarization, and transportation costs
associated with the movement of the piece you would be offered which is
dependent upon where the equipment would be coming from. The costs for
demilitarization and transportation can range from $3,000-$20,000 depending on
the distance and crane support.” In addition, the USARMY currently has a wait
list of 400 organizations waiting on static display assets and they are unable
to guarantee a time frame in which our town would be offered a piece of static
furniture.
   MOTION
   After much discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to TABLE this
discussion until more definitive information regarding the trails system can be
determined. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner and passed with a
unanimous vote of 5-0.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to go out of the Regular Meeting and into
Closed Session. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion which carried
unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   MOTION
   Commissioner Tanner made a motion to go out of the Closed Session and back
into the Regular Meeting. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion which
carried unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
ADJOURNMENT
   MOTION
   With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the
regular meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion
carried 5-0. The regular meeting was adjourned at 9:10 p.m.
MAY 15, 2023
Regular Public Meeting
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Regular Meeting
May 15, 2023
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were Mayor Jimmy Chaflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald,
Commissioners Brent Tanner, Anton Sadovnikov and Dan Bonillo. Commissioner Al
Barber was excused.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
INVOCATION
Mayor Chalflinch led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Sadovnikov gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the agenda with the addition of the
Clerk requeting to add a call for Public Hearing for Poole’s Storage Buildings
and request for Approval of the Audit Contract to New Business. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Tanner. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve consent agenda items of Meeting
Minutes from the Regular Meeting held on April 17, 2023, CLOSED Session also
held on April 17, 2023, XPECIAL CLOSED Session Minutes from April 26, 2023, and
the Budget Amendment to Prchase Office Furniture. Commissioner Tanner seconded
the motion. All ayes, motion passed 4-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
The floor was opened up for public comment, and several citizens spoke of their
dissatisfaction with the operations at Fred Smith Company. The brought forth
testimony that the air was difficult to breath, their vehicles were being
covered in asphalt sprayings, the smell and noise is almost unbearable. Mr.
Larry Jackson and Mr. Gurney Quick of Milbrooke Street each spoke with regard
to their personal experiences.
The Board expressed their concern and desire for a speedy resolution. The
offered suggestions for possible solutions and lamented the fact that this
issue has continued for over a year. The Board expressed their desire for the
citizens to be more vocal about their issues. The asked them to please not wait
to voice their concerns.
Town Manager, Emily Yopp was asked to look into state agencies that may be able
to assist in this situation. Mrs. Yopp explained that she has also been in
contact with Fred Smith Company and they would be meeting in the next week to
discuss solutions as well. She will bring all findings back before the Board
when her research is completed.
MANAGER’S REPORT
Town Manager, Emily Yopp, gave the Manager’s Report which is and does become a
part of these minutes.
Introduction of Accounting Specialist, Amy Pearman
Amy Pearman began working with the Town of Carthage on April 17th and serves as
the Accounting Specialist in the Finance Department led by Kesha Matthews. Mrs.
Pearman is learning quickly and is already an asset to the Town, and
particularly Mrs. Matthews, as they work to keep up with the increasing demands
of the Finance Department and the Town overall. Staff are excited to have her
on the team!
Verbal Report on the 2023 Buggy Festival
Mrs. Yopp and Town Clerk, Kim Gibson gave a verbal report on the 34th Annual
Buggy Festival that was held two days prior to the Regular Board Meeting.
Unfortunately, while the weather was perfect and the crowds were large, there
was an overall $1800 loss this year for festival funds. With the high inflation
rates and lower than normal sponsorship funding, the festival didn’t make any
money, and in fact, lost money.
Budget Update
Mrs. Yopp stated that staff have been working diligently to develop a balanced
budget for presentation to the Board and public at the Budget Hearing scheduled
for May 22nd at 6:30 p.m. Staff will be presenting a couple of different tax
rate scenarios for the Board’s consideration at the hearing. With this year’s
property tax revaluations, our community will be even more invested in the FY
2023-24 Budget, and staff will be sure to bring you all the information you
need to make the best decision possible.
SPECIAL SPEAKER
Ms. Becky Graham and several members of her team presented their plans for
Highlands Charter Academy which they hope to open in August of 2025. They gave
a thorough description of the academic plans and their desire for donations and
help locating a property in or near Carthage to house the school. More
information can be found at www.highlandsacademy.org.
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to go out of the Regular Meeting and into
the Public Hearing portion of the Meeting. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the
motion which passed unanimously with a vote of 4-0.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
a.   Public Hearing – Christi Carras Conditional Zoning Request for 8385 NC 24-
27 Hwy/Old Kivett’s Store
   Request to be continued until the July 2023 regular meeting as applicant has
not received all necessary information/quotes.
MOTION
Commissioner Tanner made a motion to TABLE the Public Hearing for the
Conditional Zoning request for 8385 NC 24-27 Hwy until the next regular meeting
scheduled for Monday, July 17, 2023 at 6:30 pm in the McDonald Building located
at 207 McReynolds Street. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo and
passed unanimously with a vote of 4-0.
b.   Quasi-Judicial Hearing (Case #BOA.23.02)– Variance Requested by Tim
Stelmat, 309 Seawell Place
   This matter came before the Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners, acting
in its capacity as the Board of Adjustment, for a quasi-judicial public hearing
on May 15, 2023, based on the variance requested by Tim Stelmat, the property
owner of 309 Seawell Place. On May 15, 2023, five (5) out of the six (6)
members of the Board were present at the hearing, establishing a quorum. Based
on the documents and exhibits submitted into the record by the Town Planner,
and the sworn testimony of the Town Planner and the Applicant, the Board makes
the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law:
FINDINGS OF FACT
   1.   Timothy Stelmat, located at 309 Seawell Place, has requested a variance
due to the inability to adhere to the Town’s current Unified Development
Ordinance Standards setback requirements because of the level of the property.
   2.   The current location, 309 Seawell Place, PARID 95000465, is in the R-10
or “Residential” zone, primarily designed to accommodate single family
dwellings at medium densities of approximately four units or less per acre. The
lot size for this parcel according to Moore County GIS is 0.3720 acres, which
is approximately 16,204 square feet.
   3.   Mr. Stelmat would like to build an accessory structure.
   4.   The setback requirements for an accessory structure in the R-10 zone is
not less than 10 feet from the side and rear property lines according to UDO
Section 100.56A* SR12 (4)(b).
   5.   Mr. Stelmat’s lot is less than 40,000 square feet, therefore he is
supposed to have his accessory structure located behind the front line of the
house, per UDO Section 100.56A* SR12.
   6.   Due to the typography Mr. Stelmat is requesting a variance because he
is unable to meet the setbacks in the rear due to the level of the property,
typography.
   7.   His accessory structure he is proposing is 192 square feet with a 40-
foot side and rear setback and approximately 200-foot setback from the front
parcel line.
   8.   The height, according to his application, is 12 feet which is below the
15-foot standard.
Variances. - When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the
strict letter of a zoning regulation, the Board of Adjustment shall vary any of
the provisions of the zoning regulation upon a showing of all of the following:
   1.   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of the
regulation. It is not necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
   2.   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the property,
such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from personal
circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are common
to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for granting a
variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and 14 appropriate to make
reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a person with a
disability.
   3.   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or the
property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship.
   4.   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
   Based on the evidence submitted, and the testimony presented at the hearing,
and the above Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Carthage Board of
Adjustment, in a vote of 4 to 0, ORDERED that the VARIANCE be granted.
c.   Quasi-Judicial Hearing (Case #BOA.23.03) – Variance Requested by Justin
White, 204 W Barrett Street
   This matter came before the Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners, acting
in its capacity as the Board of Adjustment, for a quasi-judicial public hearing
on May 15, 2023, based on the variance requested by Justin White, the property
owner of 204 W Barrett Street. On May 15, 2023, five (5) out of the six (6)
members of the Board were present at the hearing, establishing a quorum. Based
on the documents and exhibits submitted into the record by the Town Planner,
and the sworn testimony of the Town Planner and the Applicant, the Board makes
the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law:
   1.   Justin White Inc, located at 204 West Barrett Street, is requesting a
variance due to the inability to adhere to the Town’s current Unified
Development Ordinance Standards for setback requirements to build his house.
   2.   The current location, 204 West Barrett Street, PARID 00000464, is in
the R-HD or “Residential Historic District” off West Barrett Street, near N Ray
Street and McReynolds Street.
   3.   This parcel, according to Moore County GIS, is 0.5540 acres or
approximately 24,132 square feet.
   4.   The applicant is proposing to build a house.
   5.   The setback requirements for a detached single-family home in the R-HD
zone are 75 feet minimum lot width, 30 feet front setback, 20 feet side
setback, 20 feet rear setback, 20 feet corner setback and a minimum lot area of
15,000 square feet.
   6.   The proposed home is currently showing the width of the lot is 69.96
feet, which is less than the required 75 feet with 17.07 feet on the east side
and 17.79 feet on the west side.
   7.   This is less than the required 20 feet for each side setback.
Variances. - When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the
strict letter of a zoning regulation, the Board of Adjustment shall vary any of
the provisions of the zoning regulation upon a showing of all of the following:
   1.   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of the
regulation. It is not necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
   2.   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the property,
such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from personal
circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are common
to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for granting a
variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and 14 appropriate to make
reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a person with a
disability.
   3.   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or the
property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship.
   4.   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
   Based on the evidence submitted, and the testimony presented at the hearing,
and the above Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Carthage Board of
Adjustment, in a vote of 4 to 0, ORDERED that the VARIANCE be granted.
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to go out of Public Hearings and back
into the Regular Meeting. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion which
passed unanimously with a vote of 4- 0.
NEW BUSINESS
a.   Call a Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.23.14) – Text Amendment to the UDO
Regarding New Asphalt (Road) Requirements
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff is requesting a UDO text amendment for
Street Design Standards in UDO Section 100.65-6 (D). The current standards are
not the best in the industry and over time have caused more road maintenance
than necessary due to the less stringent requirements. The industry is
constantly changing and with the current ordinance, we are below reasonable
standards. In order for the Town of Carthage to not create extra work for
itself when taking on dedicated roads, by increasing the street design
standards, we will take on maintenance of roads that are built to the most
current standards and that we may help prevent cracking and extreme potholes
over time, due to the lack of an adequate base foundation.
MOTION
Commissioner Tanner made a motion to call a Public Hearing for the purpose of
hearing the request to amend the text for Major Subdivisions—Minimum Design
Standards in our UDO Section 100.65-6 (D) at the regularly scheduled meeting to
be held on Monday, June 19, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. to be held in the McDonald
Building, located at 207 McReynolds Street. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded
the motion which passed unanimously with a vote of 4-0.
b.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.23.15) – Request by the Board
of Trustees of Sandhills Community College to Rezone (Conditional Zoning) the
Larry Caddell Training Center
The applicant, Sandhills Community College on behalf of the property owner for
the Larry Caddell Training Center, Board of Trustees Sandhills Community
College, is requesting a rezoning for a 39.28- acre parcel located off Niagara-
Carthage Road, PARID 10001010. This parcel is currently zoned R-20. The
applicant is requesting a rezoning to I-CZ. The applicant is currently using
the Caddell Training Center as an educational training center owned and
operated by Sandhills Community College. The current use has been allowed to
operate and expand under the current zoning; however, the applicant would like
to secure the proper zoning to accommodate future uses without violating the
current zoning ordinance.
The applicant would like to have a proposed indoor shooting range with a
variety of educational training for emergency services personnel. Some of the
uses for the training proposed are beyond what is permitted in just a regular
Industrial zone, hence the reason the applicant is applying for Industrial,
conditionally zoned for other uses as well.
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call a Public Hearing for the purpose of
hearing the request for rezoning the Larry Caddell Training Center at the
regularly scheduled meeting to be held on Monday, June 19, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. to
be held in the McDonald Building, located at 207 McReynolds Street. The motion
was seconded by Commissioner Tanner and with a vote of 4-0, the motion passed
unanimously.
c.   Request for Temporary Construction Easement (Resolution #RES.23.16) –
Southern Pines Brewing Company Request for Construction Dumpster
   This is a request by the Town of Carthage to allow 106 S Ray Street
Carthage, LLC doing business as Southern Pines Brewery Co. a temporary
construction easement to move forward with their construction plans at the same
time they are in the process of purchasing a small portion of land from the
Town of Carthage. The small portion of real property they intend on purchasing
through the upset bid process is approximately 1,575 square feet from PARID
00001171.
MOTION
With little discussion, Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to approve
RES.23.16 which will allow a Temporary Construction Easement on a portion of
PID #00001171 so that Southern Pines Brewery can move forward with their
construction plans. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bonillo. All ayes,
the motion carried 4-0.
d.   Call For Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.23.17) – Consider Upset Bid for
the Sale of Approximately 1,575 Square Feet from PID# 00001171
   This is a request from the Town of Carthage to offer for sale a small
portion of real property, approximately 1,575 square feet from PARID 00001171
to 106 S Ray Street Carthage, LLC doing business as Southern Pines Brewery in
the upset bid process. The small portion of land will help Southern Pines
Brewery to have a better dumpster design and prevent excessive run-off into the
Town of Carthage parking lot. In addition, the small portion of land would have
had to be maintained by the Town of Carthage. Southern Pines Brewery is
interested in purchasing the small portion of land and go through the upset bid
process.
MOTION
With some discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to accept the offer of
$5,494.67, require a 5% bid bond of $274.73, and call for a public hearing to
be held on June 19, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. inside the McDonald Building located at
207 McReynolds Street and that the Town Clerk make all public notices as
required. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. With a vote of 4-0,
the motion passed unanimously.
e.   Road Closure Request (Resolution #RES.23.18) – Requested by David Norris
of the Rotary Club for the July 4th Parade
   Each year we have to request road closures from the DOT for the 4th of July
Parade. The DOT requires approval from the Board of Commissioners. The closures
should be the same as in years past. Rotary Club President, David Norris
requested to speak to the Board and described his plan for the parade this year
with his new tenure.
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to approve RES>23.18 allowing for the
closure of all necessary roads from 9:00 am until 1:30 pm for the July 4th
parade. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. With a vote of 4-0, the
motion passed unanimously.
f.   Police Department Surplus Request – (3) 48-inch Whelan Edge lightbars
   The Police Department has (3) 48-inch Whelan Edge lightbars that are no
longer needed. In order to dispose of or sell items, the Board of Commissioners
must approve the surplus list to allow for removal of such items from their
inventory. If approved, the items will either be sold on www.govdeals.com or
will be disposed of in another way..
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve the surplus list. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Tanner. With a vote of 4-0, the motion passed
unanimously.
g.   Carthage Water Treatment Plant – Notice of Violation for Missing Results
   HAA5 samples were collected on March 21, 2023 as required and sent to a
commercial laboratory for analysis. The laboratory was unable to generate HAA
results due to a problem with a standard that is used in the HAA5 analysis.
Their supplier of the standard had to do some internal work and then provide a
new standard to the commercial laboratory. This internal work delayed the
analysis beyond the sample holding time and compliance period.
   To avoid this problem in the future, the commercial laboratory is adding
additional product testing to confirm that the manufacturer's specifications
are met. Follow-up samples were collected on April 18, 2023 to “make-up” the
missing HAA5 test results.
   Public notice will be sent to each water customer informing them of the
Notice of Violation and the reason behind it.
h.   Local Water Supply Plan 2022 (Resolution #RES.23.19) – The Board is
Required to Approve/Adopt the Plan
   North Carolina General Statute 143 355 (l) requires that each unit of local
government that provides public water service or that plans to provide public
water service and each large community water system shall, either individually
or together with other units of local government and large community water
systems, prepare and submit a Local Water Supply Plan.
   As required by the statute and in the interest of sound local planning, a
Local Water Supply Plan for the Town of Carthage has been developed and
submitted to the Board of Commissioners for approval.
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to approve Resolution #RES.23.19, the
Local Water Supply Plan 2022 as presented. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo. With a vote of 4-0, the motion passed unanimously.
i.   Emergency Water Purchase Agreement With Moore County
   As the Town’s original agreement with the County to provide Emergency Water
has expired, staff would like to renew that agreement to ensure access to
additional water if needed in an emergency shortage situation.
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to approve the Emergency Water Purchase
Agreement with Moore County as written and presented. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Sadovnikov. With a vote of 4-0, the motion passed unanimously.
j.   Call for a Public Hearing (Resolution #RES.23.20) -- Text Amendment
Request for 4937 US 15-501 Hwy to Allow for Portable Building Sales withing the
Highway Commercial District
   Mr. Chris Poole has requested a text amendment to allow for portable
building sales at 4937 US 15-501 Hwy given that the UDO does not allow for
storage of the portable buildings onsite as currently zoned. Mr. Poole wishes
to have this text amendment to operate his portable building sales business.
The property is owned by Grace Church of Southern Pines.
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to call a Public Hearing for the purpose of
hearing the request for a text amendment to the Udo to allow for portable
building sales within the HCD at the regularly scheduled meeting scheduled on
Monday, June 19, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. to be held in the McDonald Building, located
at 207 McReynolds Street. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Sadovnikov.
With a vote of 4-0, the motion passed unanimously.
k.   Approval of Amended Audit Contract
   North Carolina General Statute 159-34 and North Carolina General Statute
115C-447 require all local governments, public authorities, and schools to have
their accounts audited annually and to submit the audit report to the Secretary
of the Local Government Commission. The audit should be completed by October
31st each year. We have not completed the FY 2021-22 audit because of
increasing workloads and prior understaffing in the Finance Department.
Attached is an amended audit contract (LGC-205) submitted by S. Preston Douglas
& Associates for their services for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2022.
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to accept the Amended Contract to Audit
Accounts for the Town of Carthage for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2022. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner. With a vote of 4-0, the motion
passed unanimously.
j.   Discussion of the proposed Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and
Carthage's Position on Inclusion or Preference to Remain a Rural Planning
Organization (RPO) (See Exhibit A)
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
MOTION
With the Regular Meeting agenda completed, Mayor Chalflinch requested a motion
to go into Closed Session. Commissioner Tanner made a motion to go out of the
Regular Meeting and into Closed Session. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Bonillo. With a vote of 4-0, the motion passed unanimously.
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to go out of Closed Session and return to
the Regular Meeting. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion and with a
unanimous vote of 4-0, the motion carried unanimously.
ADJOURNMENT
MOTION
With no other business, Commissioner Tanner motioned to adjourn the regular
meeting. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried
4-0. The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:55 p.m.
MAY 22, 2023
Town of Carthage
Board of Commissioners
Special Budget Meeting
May 22, 2023
6:30 p.m.
ROLL CALL
Present in-person were, Mayor Jimmy Chaflinch, Mayor Pro Tem John McDonald,
Commissioners Brent Tanner, Dan Bonillo, and Anton Sadovnikov. Commissioner Al
Barber was present by virtual meeting link.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Jimmy Chalflinch called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
INVOCATION
Commissioner John McDonald led the room in prayer.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Commissioner Bonillo gave the pledge.
APPROVAL OF AGENDA
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to approve the agenda as presented.
Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion. All ayes, motion passed 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
The floor was opened up for public comment, but the only participants were
present for the Public Hearings. The General Public Comment session was closed.
MOTION
Commissioner Bonillo made a motioned to go out of the Regular meeting and into
the Public Hearing. Commissioner Sadovnikov seconded the motion. All ayes,
motion passed 5-0.
**Quasi Judicial Hearings do not allow for virtual participation, therefore,
Commissioner Barber abstained from participating in the Quasi-Judicial Hearing.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
a.   Quasi-Judicial Hearing (Case #BOA.23.04)–Appeal of Notice of
Violation—Requested by Joseph Smith, Representative of Scott Ahrens, Owner of
Corvette Corral, LLC, 3864 US 15-501 Hwy
 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
FOR TOWN OF CARTHAGE, NORTH CAROLINA
IN RE: APPEAL OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR’S DECISION REGARDING THE NOTICE OF
VIOLATION ISSUED TO CORVETTE CORRAL, LLC FOR THE PROPERTY LOCATED AT 3864 US
HWY 15-501, CARTHAGE, N.C.
DECISION AND ORDER OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   This matter came before the Town of Carthage Board of Commissioners, acting
in its capacity as the Board of Adjustment (“Board”), for a quasi-judicial
public hearing on May 22, 2023, based on the appeal requested by Joseph Smith,
authorized agent on behalf of Corvette Corral, LLC and its managing member,
Scott Ahrens (“the Appellant”), the property owner of 3864 US Hwy 15-501, of
the Zoning and Development Administrator’s decision to issue Appellant a
“Notice of Violation” letter dated April 18, 2023. On May 22, 2023, five (5)
out of the six (6) members of the Board were present at the hearing,
establishing a quorum. Based on the documents and exhibits submitted into the
record by the Zoning Administrator and Appellant, and the sworn testimony of
the Zoning Administrator, Town staff, and the Appellant, the Board makes the
following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law:
FINDINGS OF FACT
   1.   Corvette Corral, LLC is a North Carolina limited liability company and
the owner of real property located at the address of 3864 US Hwy 15-501 in the
Town of Carthage (the “Town”) corporate limits (PIN: 858800107144, Moore County
LRK# 991945; the “Property”). The Town has land-use regulatory authority over
the Property, including enforcing its Unified Development Ordinance (the
“UDO”), which is zoned Thoroughfare Business District (“TBD”). The storing of
vehicles is not a permitted use in the TBD, although minor repair of vehicles
is allowed in that district with an approved zoning compliance permit.
   2.   Scott Ahrens is the sole managing member of Corvette Corral, LLC and
purchased the Property on or around May 3, 2022. Mr. Ahrens has authorized his
agent, Joseph Smith (the “Appellant”), to act on behalf of Corvette Corral,
LLC, during all relevant times subject to this appeal.
   3.   Prior to Corvette Corral, LLC obtaining ownership, the Property was
originally zoned for use as an office building, not for the storage or minor
repair of vehicles. Corvette Corral, LLC never obtained a zoning compliance
permit from the Town’s Planning Department for any vehicle repair, nor did it
obtain a building inspection from the County for that use. Additionally,
because vehicle storage is not permitted in the TBD, the Property would have to
be rezoned to allow for this use.
   4.   On September 28, 2022, Appellant submitted a conditional zoning request
to the Town to rezone the Property for the following uses: “High-end
temperature-controlled car storage (inside); outdoor parking/storage for
oversized vehicles, car shows, auctions, and vehicle detailing.”
   5.   At its regular meeting on December 19, 2022, the Town Board of
Commissioners (“BOC”) consider Appellant’s conditional rezoning request, which
was unanimously denied after a legislative public hearing because, inter alia,
unclear business plan submitted by Appellant, undesirable use of prime business
location as a vehicle storage facility, and Appellant was not available at the
meeting to answer questions the BOC had for the rezoning request.
   6.   On December 22, 2022, the Town’s Zoning and Development Administrator,
Jamie Sandoval (“Ms. Sandoval” or “Zoning Administrator”) sent the Appellant an
email explaining that Appellant’s conditional rezoning request had been denied
by the BOC because “warehouse storage is not an appropriate use for that zoning
district.” In addition, Ms. Sandoval notified Appellant “that one or more
vehicles are already being stored within the building. Unfortunately, this
constitutes a violation of our zoning ordinance.”
   7.   Because Appellant did not attend the December 19, 2022 hearing on its
conditional zoning request, he asked the Town if the BOC would reconsider its
conditional zoning petition. After consideration, the Town Manager put
Appellant on the February 20, 2023 agenda for the BOC to decide whether to
reconsider and call a public hearing on Appellant’s initial conditional zoning
request.
   8.   At the February 20, 2023 BOC regular meeting, the Appellant and his
father addressed the Board with ideas for what they wanted to do with the
Property. The BOC then agreed to allow them to re-petition its conditional
zoning request with instructions to bring forth a complete plan for what
specific uses they want to apply to the Property, not merely the uses they
potentially could use the Property for.
   9.   On February 23, 2023, Appellant sent an email to Jennifer Hunt (“Ms.
Hunt”), Town Planner, about re-submitting its conditional zoning application
that night.
   10.   Because Appellant never resubmitted its conditional zoning application
to the Town for over a month, by an email dated March 29, 2023, Ms. Sandoval
informed the Town’s Code Enforcement Officer, Derek Mabe, of the Property’s
continuing violation of the UDO because vehicles were still being stored
onsite. Ms. Hunt also sent a follow up email to the Appellant on April 18,
2023, inquiring as to the status of their conditional zoning application.
   11.    On April 18, 2023, Mr. Sandoval, pursuant to her authority as the
Zoning Administrator, hand delivered the owner, Mr. Ahrens, a “Notice of
Violation” letter (the “NOV”), who at the time was actively off-loading
vehicles into the building on the Property. The NOV explained that the Property
was in violation of the UDO because the Property is “not zoned for storage of
vehicles” pursuant to the Table of Permitted uses for the TBD zoning districts
and that the Property was being used “without issuance of a Development Permit”
from the Town in violation of UDO §§ 100.38-1 and 100.49. The NOV also informed
Mr. Ahrens of his right to appeal the NOV to the Carthage Board of Adjustment
within fifteen (15) days pursuant to UDO § 100.51(2).
   12.   On the same day the NOV was delivered to Mr. Ahrens, Appellant
submitted its conditional zoning request application via email to Ms. Hunt who
informed the Appellant the following day that the application was incomplete
and explained what needed to be included in order to begin the application
process.
   13.   On May 4, 2023, Derek Mabe pursuant to his authority as Code
Enforcement Officer, conducted a site visit of the Property and took
photographs through the windows of the building which showed vehicles were
still being housed within the building on the Property in violation of the UDO.
   14.   On April 28, 2023, Appellant submitted its application for an appeal
of the NOV to the Town’s Board of Adjustment. In support of the appeal,
Appellant stated in his application that:
The vehicles currently in rotation on site are not being stored. They are
undergoing Minor Electrical Maintenance that requires they be connected to a
live power source and be out of the elements. The vehicles are regularly driven
as well to properly maintain the electrical and fuel systems. As far as we
understand Minor Vehicle Maintenance is covered under our permitted use under
the TBD.
   15.   The Town, however, was not provided with any evidence by the Appellant
of the minor vehicle maintenance and/or vehicle rotation conducted on the
Property, nor had the Appellant or Mr. Ahrens obtained a zoning compliance
permit from the Town for these uses.
   16.   On May 22, 2023, the Town’s Board of Adjustment heard Appellant’s
appeal at a quasi-judicial public hearing. Five (5) out of the six (6) members
of the Board of Adjustment were present at the hearing, which call to order
began at 6:30 pm. Town Mayor, Jimmy Chalflinch, served as the Board’s
Chairperson, along with the other four (4) Board members present which
established a valid quorum for the hearing.
   17.   Town Staff present at the hearing included Jamie Sandoval, the Town’s
Zoning Administrator, Jennifer Hunt, Town Planner, Emily Yopp, Town Manager,
and Brady Herman, Town Attorney representing the Board. Appellant was also
present at the hearing in support of its appeal.
   18.   Ms. Sandoval testified and presented to the Board the facts and
evidence on which she based her decision and interpretation of the UDO when she
issued the Notice of Violation to the Appellant via Mr. Ahrens on April 18,
2023, including providing all of the relevant ordinances and other documents to
support her decision and background on the issue.
   19.   Appellant presented testimony in support of his appeal for why Ms.
Sandoval’s Notice of Violation decision should be overturned, which included
the reasons stated in his appeal application that the Property was being used
for minor vehicle repair and not vehicle storage.
   20.   Emily Yopp, Town Manager, testified and reminded the Board that the
Appellant had not applied for nor received any zoning compliance permit from
the Town for using the Property for minor vehicle repair.
   21.   At the conclusion of the evidence and testimony presented and after
the Board had an opportunity to ask clarifying questions to both Town staff and
the Appellant, Mayor Chalflinch closed the public hearing and reviewed the
options to the Board for making a motion to either affirm, reverse, or modify
Ms. Sandoval’s interpretation of the UDO and decision to issue the Notice of
Violation to Appellant. The Board then went into deliberation to discuss the
facts and evidence in the record of the case.
   22.   A motion was made to affirm the Zoning Administrator’s decision and
interpretation regarding the Notice of Violation due to the fact that the
evidence and testimony showed that vehicles were being stored within the
building on the Property in violation of the UDO. The motion was seconded and
carried a unanimous four (4) to zero (0) vote to affirm the Zoning
Administrator’s decision and interpretation of the Unified Development
Ordinance.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
A.   The Board concludes there was substantial, competent, and material
evidence in the record that the use of the Property was for vehicle storage.
B.   The Board concludes that the Zoning Administrator’s interpretation of the
UDO and decision to issue the Notice of Violation was based on substantial,
competent, and material evidence in the record because vehicle storage is not
permitted in the TBD zoning district.
C.   The Board concludes that Appellant’s use of the Property for vehicle
storage constitutes a violation of the Town’s UDO as stated in the Zoning
Administrator’s April 18, 2023 Notice of Violation.
D.   The Board concludes that Appellant shall cease and desist the operation
and use of the Property for vehicle storage within fifteen (15) days of receipt
of this Order.
   Based on the appeal, the evidence submitted, and the testimony presented at
the hearing, and the above Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
Carthage Board of Adjustment, in a vote of 4 to 0, ORDERED that the
interpretation and decision of the Town’s Zoning and Development Administrator
be AFFIRMED.
   Ordered this 22nd day of May, 2023.
MOTION
Commissioner Sadovnikov made a motion to TABLE the Public Hearing for the
Conditional Zoning request for 8385 NC 24-27 Hwy until the next regular meeting
scheduled for Monday, May 15, 2023 at 6:30 pm in the McDonald Building located
at 207 McReynolds Street. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tanner and
passed unanimously with a vote of 5-0.
   a.   Public Hearing (Ordinance # ORD.23.08) – UDO Text Amendment to Section
100.29 (2)(a) “Powers and Duties of the Board of Adjustment – Variances”
   The Town of Carthage Planning staff is proposing to amend the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) language for “Variances” to be in accordance with
N.C.G.S. (North Carolina General Statute) 160D-705.
MOTION 2
Commissioner Tanner made a motion to go out of Public Hearings and back into
the Regular Meeting. Commissioner Bonillo seconded the motion and with a vote
of 4-0, the motion carried unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS
a.   Surety Bond Request from David Chapman for Southbury Phase 2
   David Chapman, developer for Southbury, is requesting the Board’s
consideration of a performance guarantee agreement for a cash bond for certain
improvements so that final plat may be approved by Town staff and construction
of Phase 3 may begin. The draft agreement and estimates for improvements to be
guaranteed are included on the following pages.
MOTION
After little discussion, Commissioner Bonillo made a motion to accept the
Performance Guarantee Agreement for the Completion of Southbury Phase 3 as
presented. Commissioner Tanner seconded the motion which passed unanimously
with a vote of 5-0.
**NOTE: It is to be noted that Commissioner Barber lost connection and was
forced to leave the meeting.
b.   Preliminary Budget Presentation for Review by the Board
   Town Manager, Emily Yopp presented the Board with four scenarios for Budget
Options. Each one was requested during the March Budget Planning Sessions.
   One option was presented with all requests from the Department Heads, with a
6% COLA and no reduction in taxes. (Deficit of $284,354)
   The second option was presented with a 5% COLA, all Departmental requests
met, and no reduction in taxies. (Deficit of $267,623)
   The third option showed a reduction in taxes to .47 cent, 5% COLA, and all
requests met. (Deficit of $412,278)
   The fourth option presented a reduction in taxes to .45 cents, 5% COLA, all
requests met. (Deficit of $494,937)
   The Board, along with Department Heads, discussed options of items to cut to
get the most out of what they wanted for the benefit of the Town citizens and
staff. They requested that the Finance Manager and Town Manager take their
suggestions and agreed upon cuts and try to balance with a tax reduction to .48
cents.
   They asked that the balanced budget be brought for public hearing on Monday,
June 19, 2023 at the Regular Meeting held at the McDonald Building located at
207 McReynolds Street.
ADJOURNMENT
MOTION
With no other business, Commissioner Sadovnikov motioned to adjourn the regular
meeting. Mayor Pro Tem McDonald seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried
44-0. The regular meeting was adjourned at 8:32 p.m.
 
 
